---
title: The Consequences of Dissonance - Chapter Ten
weight: 10
date: 2008-12-01
---

“Nah, man, that stuff makes me feel stupid,” I said, pawing Thomas’
poffered joint on towards Kris who plucked it delicately from my
roommate’s fingers.

“Hope you don’t mind, Cor’,” she said, relighting the end of the pungent
bit of pot, the newly rolled joint glowing red at the flame and
releasing a tiny curl of smoke towards the light in our room, which
Thomas had covered in a bit of green-tea colored cloth.

I shrugged and propped myself up with my elbows on my bed, handing the
‘sploof’ on to Kris, which she exchanged for her lighter. “It’s cool,” I
said. “Just don’t like it myself. As long as you don’t get us all in
trouble, I’ll be fine.”

Nodding distractedly, she huffed out through the sploof. It was an old
Mountain Dew bottle stuffed with what appeared to be a cut up sock and a
fist-sized clump of fabric softener sheets. The cloud of smoke that
puffed out of the hole melted in the bottom of the bottle didn’t exactly
smell like fresh mountain breezes as advertized, but then, it hardly
smelled like much at all, rather than the rather distinct odor of pot
smoke.

I knew the ritual; Thomas would pile a towel at the base of the door,
smoke up, and then light a stick of Nag Champa for five seconds. Or ten,
depending on how stoned he got and how slow that made him count. I’d
gotten on him more about the smell of incense than the smell of pot. The
stuff bugged my nose.

Kris took another hit or two from the joint before licking her thumb and
forefinger and pinching what was left of the cherry on the pot, putting
it out with a staccato hiss. The half-smoked stub disappeared into the
oboe reed tube that Eric had provided Thomas with (and Thomas had passed
on to her) from his double-reed techniques class. That found its way
into her backpack and was exchanged for a ten dollar bill, which made
its way over to Thomas, who was busy slipping himself into a hoodie that
was probably a size or two too small for him.

“Ciao, kids,” he mumbled, stumbling over to the door with the rest of
his baggie of pot secreted in his back pocket. “See ya... uh...
whenever, I guess.”

“Have a good night, weekend, whatever period of time,” I called after
him as the door shut. I shrugged, “Probably won’t see him until Monday
night.”

Kris nodded and crawled onto the bed with me on hands and knees, doing a
graceless faceplant into my covers as if she was bowing down to my opera
poster. She giggled there, muffled by my comfortor, before nearly a
minute. Unable to restrain myself, I gave her a little push on her hip
and tipped her over onto my bed where she smiled at me languidly from my
bed. “music,” she uttered.

I grinned and shook my head, levering myself up enough to hit my
spacebar and unpause the sound. Some jazzy, Japanese stuff that Kris had
turned me on to melted out of the speakers as languidly as the girl’s
smile. I turned back to find her tugging here and there at my comforter,
searching for the edge of it to pull up over herself. She always got
cold when she smoked. I lifted up a bit to tug the blanket from beneath
me and threw it over her. She wriggled against the bed and kicked about
until her feet found purchase and she slid herself moreunder the cover,
leaving only her calves and feet exposed over the edge of the bed.

“Mmf.” What appeared to be a head lifted a bit, then fell back down
heavily. “Smells like you.”

“Gross.”

“I know, fuckin’ sick, dude.” Giggling ensued.

I didn’t believe in contact highs until recently. I’d tried pot enough
with Thomas and Jamen enough to know that I either freaked out or felt
too stupid to enjoy it. Thomas had introduced Kris to it at about the
same time, and she had taken to it much more than I had. I still didn’t
think I really got a contact high from just being around it, but since
my moods had started to mirror Kris’ so much when she was around, I
tended to relax and get a little goofier around her when she was this
relaxed and goofy.

I levered myself up off the bed to shut the window against the
mid-October chill that was starting to be felt in the room, thinking
that I’d be already wearing my jacket up in Steamboat at this time of
year. I wound over to the mini-fridge that Thomas had mysteriously
procured and offered to share with me and pulled out a beer, one of the
few vices I allowed myself in the dorms. Another gift from Thomas, I
thought wryly. Clearly, stoners were something to be reviled. Pff. I
opened the bottle from my multi-tool before climbing back onto the bed
and sitting at the head of it, crosslegged and leaning back against the
side of my desk.

“Can you breathe alright under there?” I asked, brushing my foot up over
the rounded lump that was probably Kris’ head. “Not suffocating in those
me-fumes?”

A hand slithered free of the covers and then peeled them back over her
head to free it somewhat. “You. Smell like. Pine. Trees.” Every word was
a sentence, and the whole paragraph was apparently giggle-worthy.

“Thankee,” I laughed, drinking down some of my beer and setting it on
the corner of my desk. I leaned back to watch as Kris levered herself up
off the bed in a way that indicated that she weighed nearly four hundred
pounds, clawing her way up the bed. “Hey!” I laughed, ooofing as her
hands wound up on my crossed legs and chest, the girl crawling over me a
little in order to stretch out a wavering arm and make a desparate grab
for my beer, almost tipping it over in the process.

“Thanks, boy,” she muttered, taking a swig from the bottle. The swig
turned into a few swallows and by the time she came up for air, she had
downed almost a half of the bottle. “Chivalry’s dead,” she huffed, then
let out a belch larger than I could ever muster.

“You, my friend, are disgusting.” I laughed as she glared at me with
crossed eyes. “Drunk and stoned.”

“I know,” she whined at me and set the beer bottle shakily down on my
desk again, sitting up at now. “It’s all some ploy for you to get me in
bed, I’m sure.”

“Dude, I think you got that backwards,”I laughed again. “Besides, you’re
already in my bed.”

She squeezed her eyes shut in my direction and burped at me again. “Yep.
Cold.”

There was another fuss with the blankets, but she wound up wrapped in
them once more, looking to be a navy blue lump, a rocky isle in the
middle of the sea of my lighter blue sheets. I giggled as I struggled to
extend the metaphore to her head poking free of the blanket, coming up
with a much more proportionally accurate vision of Easter Island.

“Laughin’ at me,” she mumbled and snaked an arm around to pinch at my
calf.

“Well, yeah,” I grinned, squirming at the pinch.

“Jus’ tryin’ to get me into bed,” she laughed. She repeated herself a
lot while stoned.

I rolled my eyes and nodded, not even bothering to correct her a second
time.

“Then you won’t mind,” she said, talking more clearly than she had been.

I looked up curiously just in time for her nose to bump against my own
as her lips were mashed to mine in a clumsy sort of kiss.

Surprise made my whole body jerk out of it’s half-dazed relaxation into
a state of tenseness. I managed to keep myself from making any sort of
sound as her face hesitated against my own, my mind already rushing as
it struggled with the idea of being kissed by a girl. A girl. Female,
short, soft skin, has breasts and a vagina, hardly even the same
species. Also, sensitive and prone to taking offense. I tore through
corridors of words seeking the ones that would explain how I felt
without destroying a friendship and finding none.

I’m sure my lack of response to the gesture tipped her off as to what
was going on, though, because Kris settled back away from me, a look of
horror on her face as it got redder by the moment. “Oh, God,” she
breathed, settling back onto her haunches. “Oh, Jeez, I’m sorry, Cory.
Fuck...” She scuttled back on the bed, belying her inebriated state, in
order to sit at the far end, staring at me for an awkward second before
shouting, “Fuck! God damn it.” She threw the comforter up over her head
and I could see her cross her arms over her knees and bury her forehead
against them.

I sat stunned for a moment longer, trying to parse this strange twist in
our friendship. I was brought out of my stupor by the sight of Kris’
shoulders shaking beneath the folds of the blanket. “No, no, no,” I said
softly as I crawled across the bed toward the navy lump at the foot of
it.

Settling next to the pile of covers and girl, I wrapped my arms around
the whole thing as best as I could, hugging around Kris’ shoulders and
around her knees in an echo of her own arms. “Shh, it’s okay,” I cooed
under my breath. “I just wasn’t expecting it.” I kept at it for what
felt like half an hour but was probably only a few minutes.

A squirm interrupted me. “Cor, let me up. Can’t breathe,” she said
muffledly. I laughed a little nervously and relaxed my grip around her
so that she could tug the flap of comforter she’d thrown over her head
free and lift her head. She sat there for a few seconds, breathing the
cooler air of the room. Her face was dry, but her eyes were a little red
and her eyelashes were clumped together, free of make up as always, but
damp with tears.

“You alright?” I hazarded.

“’m way stoned,” she giggled a little, sniffing noisily afterwards.
“Sorry ’gain, bro.”

“No, it’s okay,” I said cautiously. “Guess I over reacted.”

“Doofus,” she muttered, shifting her weight against me and resting her
head on my shoulder. “You didn’t react at all. Dunno what I was
expecting, kissing gay boys.”

I didn’t really know what to say, so I just hugged my arms all the
tighter around her. All I could think about was that suddenly all her
affection towards me in the last month made a lot more sense. Thoughts
raced around my in my head

We must’ve sat there for half an hour or so. Song after song passed
through the playlist. Kris straightened out her legs and freed her
armsfrom the blanket at one point and I tried to free my own arms, but
she held onto my elbow, keeping my arm around her front while her
fingers drummed lazily to the beat of the song. Strange as the situation
was, she was still stoned, and she’d talked plenty about how awesome
this band sounded when she could ‘hear so much more.’

I made up my mind when the playlist looped back to the beginning and
tried to speak. Finding my throat totally devoid of moisture, I
swallowed a few times before mustering up, “Kris, I... well, you know
I’m not angry with you or anything and–”

She cut me off by shaking her head and leaning away from me somewhat.
“No, don’t want your platitudes. Or whatever.” She mumbled on, “Not the
right word. Don’t want your... stuff.”

“No, Kris, I’m not trying to give platitudes–”

“No ’pologies, then.” She looked stubborn and tired.

Desperate to get it out before I lost my nerve, I raised my voice.
“Kristal god damn Careen, I fucking liked it.”

“No– what?” She stiffled a laugh, “You suck at cussing.”

We stared at each other for a moment or two before I leaned in to place
another, more delicate kiss on her lips, very belatedly returning her
gesture.

She softened up after only a second of contact, and we each relaxed
against the other, holding the contact for a few seconds before leaning
back against the wall.

“You suck,” she muttered, smiling as she did so. She levered my arms
from around her and kneaded her hands against my shoulder much like a
cat on a favorite blanket, pushing me over onto my side before slinking
up along the bed to spoon against me rather decisively, giving me little
choice.

I laughed a little, but stayed tense, arms held still and awkward.

“I hate you.” Then, “Hold me, you dork.”
