---
title: Chapter Thirteen
weight: 13
date: 2008-12-01
---

The credits rolled on the film and Kris sagged heavily against me. She
was in the process of educating me in film with some of her artsier
DVDs. I wasn’t quite sure what role alcohol played in the process, but
when I mentioned that I had procured a bottle of gin through one of
Thomas friends, she had insisted upon a movie night as if the two were
inseparable.

So Friday night found us lounging on my bed with the pillows cushioning
the wall we lounged against, drunkenly watching movies. She had eased me
into the evening with something vaguely sci-fi, but the night turned
quickly towards chick-flick with this last movie, though I did have to
admit to enjoying the film quite a bit.

I stretched out and felt the pleasant fatigue that I noticed accompanied
drinking, the slight warmth inside and the faint buzz in my head. I felt
that I was still in the experimentation phase with alcohol and found
that I had enjoyed being tipsy rather more than being drunk, and aimed
for that this evening. Kris, on the other hand, while she had had the
same amount as me, certainly seemed to be more heavily affected by the
drink and was to the point of slurring her words.

“Mmf,” she stated, rubbing her face against my sleeve. “S’a cute movie.”

“I thought it was an art film.”

“Oh, sure. Mos’ art films are crap, though,” she mumbled, giggling. “I
like that one more for how cute it is.”

I hugged my arm around her shoulders and pulled her up closer. “I liked
it.”

“Good. Would hit you if you didn’t,” Kris replied muffledly.

“Violent, abusive relationship,” I murmurred, slipping myself off the
bed to let Kris settle down onto her side, head propped up with one of
her hands. I poked at the TV once or twice before finding the power
button, plunging the room into darkness. I grabbed the empty two liter
bottle off my desk and bonked it against Kris’ head as best as I could
while tipsy in the dark. “You, girl, need water. Don’t sleep yet.”

Taking the sigh as a reply, I made my way out into the corridor, proving
how drunk I wasn’t by walking all the more carefully to the water
fountain to fill the bottle.

The movie, Amelie, was just about perfect, I thought. It wasn’t that it
described my own relationship with the girl in my room, but that the
relationship in the film had described just about every emotion I’d felt
in all of my relationships, ever.

“Fuck! Daydreaming,” I mumbled, pulling the bottle away from the
fountain and shaking the water I’d spilled on my hands off onto the
floor. I made my way back to the room with the mostly-full water bottle,
taking a few rather large gulps myself so that I could dedicate the rest
to rehydrating my girlfriend.

In my room, I found Kris sitting up on the bed with her tired eyes
smiling at me, gratefully taking the water and drinking it carefully. I
crawled up onto the bed and sat down near to her.

“Thanks, Cor.”

I nodded and sat silent for a bit, feeling a bit of a lump in my throat.
The friday before fall break. A week away. “Stay here tonight?”

Kris laughed and nodded. “Duh, not walking back across campus drunk.”

“Good,” I sighed, relaxing to lounge on my bed as before. Mom had
planned out most of my next week, and although we were hopeful and had
each other’s phone numbers, it didn’t look as though I’d make it down to
Boulder from Steamboat.

Kris drank about half of the water before capping the bottle and setting
it down by the side of the bed. She grabbed at a pillow and piled it up
at the head of the bed, flumping down tiredly on her back. I stretched
out on my side next to her and rested my hand on her belly, that subtle
roundness I had noticed when we first met always seemed to fit perfectly
against my palm. I had even subtly dissuaded her from trying to lose
weight because of it, which made me feel selfish and giddy.

We shared a few tired kisses while the utter darkness of the room drove
us toward sleep.

I had never slept well with anyone in the bed. Their slightest movement
would wake me and even a little bit of sound kept me awake. It was hard
enough even with Thomas on the other side of the room, and it was no
different with Kris in the same bed as me. I drifted in and out of sleep
in the rhythm of her movements, fragments of dream mixing with reality
so that I was never quite sure which was which even as we dozed under
the covers, still fully clothed.

I dreamt that I was a balloon or some sort of gaseous, expansive
creature. Floating, but held down to earth by the blankets, held in
check by clothing covering almost all of me. My emotions were expansive,
and I felt as though there was a need to get in contact with a similar
sort of creature that was oh-so-close. My pensive feelings about being
away from Kris seemed to translate into this physical yearning to merge
with her even as we slept.

I floated closer to reality and further from the dream as I felt her
shift against me. I heard someone’s breath catch but wasn’t sure whose
as our arms tightened around each other almost simultaneously. The
transition from sleep to wakefulness was seamless, a glide through a
spectrum of blues to black, and even before I was completely there, her
lips found mine and we settled into a kiss. She slid her knee between my
own to wedge my thighs apart with her own, and I slid my fingers up
beneath the hem of her shirt to brush my hand over smooth skin and press
her closer from the small of her back.

More awake than asleep now, I heard her moan quietly into my mouth and
we pressed ourselves closer still. My head was still full of the buzzing
from the gin and it seemed to not leave any room for concern as I felt
my erection pressed firmly to her hip. She broke the kiss and we stayed
silent — it felt as though there was some sort of communication between
our subconscious thoughts.

What followed seemed to be choreographed by those same thoughts. The
urgency picked up and I brushed my hand up along her back, helping Kris
slide out of her shirt even as she reached her hand around to undo her
bra. My shirt followed and, topless, we resumed the kiss with a new
fervor.

A few awkward moments followed as both of our hands went to work at
helping the other out of their pants without breaking kiss if at all
possible. I leaned myself in against her front as I felt myself so close
to that dream of merging, my arm fast around her back to hold her close
against me. Still in our underwear, my arousal had tented out my boxers
and was sandiwiched between us, every movement from either person
translated into electric pleasure.

I felt her nails as she pushed her fingers down over my back and slid
them beneath the waistband of my underwear, grazing over my backside and
pushing the garmen down a little ways. With my consciousness starting to
invade my thoughts, I pulled back from the kiss and whispered, “Kris,
we–”

She shook her head and cut me off by reinitiating the kiss, tugging at
my lower lip with her own. I paused for a moment and she took the
opportunity to take the lead, sliding my boxers down over my hips. I
raised myself up off the mattress a little to let her do so and shivered
at the sudden exposure that lead to. It took me a second, but I followed
her example, hooking my thumb through the waistband of her panties and
sliding them down her thighs.

She was the next to break the kiss as she pulled me to her fingers
guiding me towards her even as she freed a leg from her underwear and
used her foot to push my boxers down around my ankles. “It’s okay, Cor,”
she gasped. Then, “Please...” She pulled me in against her and rolled
partway onto her back, the motion completing our union as I slid against
her, bringing us together completely.

A corner of my mind was all that was left to observe the rest. Sex with
girls wasn’t that different than sex with guys, it thought. No, it
recanted, it was totally different. Then even that shut down and all
that was left was movement, slow and attentive. The alcohol had dulled
our nerves and consequently, the experience was drawn out until, our
motions growing ever more frantic, bright lights popped in the back of
my skull as my orgasm washed over me, Kris shuddering and breathing
hoarsely against me.

We melted against each other and stayed united for as long as possible
before, sleepily, we separated and each pulled our underwear back on,
each cleaning up a bit in the process. We returned to the embrace and
buried ourselves under the covers, sharing feathery kisses and
whispering to each other as we held close.

“We weren’t... safe,” I realized aloud, calm despite the implications.

“I’m on the pill,” Kris replied sleepily. “And you’re not sick, are
you?”

I shook my head a little and bumped my nose against hers. “You might get
the gay, though.”

I felt her smile as she kissed at me, “I think I might’ve given you the
straight, Cor.”

Comfortable together like that, sleep surprised me — I didn’t wake until
morning.
