---
title: The Consequences of Dissonance - Chapter Fifteen
weight: 15
date: 2008-12-01
---

I climbed out of bed after an hour of trying to sleep and sat on the
floor in front of my computer, watching the screen dully as it lit the
room with streaming characters, the boot sequence scrolling by
haltingly. The grayish glow it cast around the room left only a
rectangular shadow from my bed against the wall, my room almost
completely empty other than that, a few boxes stacked in one of the
corners contained most of the rest of my stuff.

The stream of characters blinked to nothing before being replaced by a
gray screen, and then a blue one, prompting me to log in. I typed in my
username one-handed — CoryroC — and then the string of letters, numbers,
and punctuation that served as my password, watching the system load the
rest of the way.

I stared at the fractal pattern of my desktop for a few moments longer
before finally moving, dragging the mouse cursor up to the top of the
screen to select the wireless network to connect to, the one I had set
up nearly two years ago for Jared. I barely waited for the network
manager to finish authenticating before opening up my browser and, on a
whim, my IM client. I told myself that I was hoping that a few friends
from high school would be on, that I wasn’t really hoping against all
logic that Kris would be on at midnight.

Rather than watching the names pile up in the contacts window, I
switched immediately to my browser to check email and forums, figuring
that maybe if I didn’t look at the buddy list, I wouldn’t be
disappointed.

My email had hardly loaded before the window was partially obscured by a
message.

**krisTALsaidso**: no sleep?

I tried to keep my heart from squeezing out from between my ribs as I
typed back.

**CoryroC**: No. You?

**krisTALsaidso**: just got home from a movie with the folks

**CoryroC**: Cool, cool. How are things going down in Boulder?

**krisTALsaidso**: alright so far

**krisTALsaidso**: how bout up in the mountains?

**CoryroC**: Cold and boring :P

**krisTALsaidso**: aw poor boy. having fun with the family at least?

**CoryroC**: Nah, they’re the boring part :P I told my mom and step dad
about us, though.

**krisTALsaidso**: howd that go?

**CoryroC**: My mom was fine with it, though she said she was worried
that I got into the relationship too fast, and that I was trying to make
my life extra different by moving away and dating a girl.

**krisTALsaidso**: weird.. do you think you rushed into this?

**CoryroC**: Yeah, but that’s why it’s so fun :)

**krisTALsaidso**: god your such a dork. what about your stepdad?

**CoryroC**: He was happy.

**krisTALsaidso**: cool

**CoryroC**: I guess. I feel a little offended because he was only happy
that I wasn’t going out with boys anymore. He’s kind of a dick like
that.

**krisTALsaidso**: that sucks

**krisTALsaidso**: like he wasnt happy for you just happy at your
expense

**CoryroC**: Yeah. He told me he was glad that he could finally relate
to me now, and asked all these questions about you.

**krisTALsaidso**: ew like what kind?

**CoryroC**: Just like how you looked and why I liked you and if you
were hot or not.

**krisTALsaidso**: how did you answer?

**krisTALsaidso**: answer carefully ;)

**CoryroC**: Hehe. I said you were short and had short hair.

**krisTALsaidso**: dick

**CoryroC**: Heh. I said I liked you because you’re funny and sweet and
more honest than anyone. And I said you were hot :)

**krisTALsaidso**: good boy

**CoryroC**: Thanks :P It’s really weird having this random old man
asking me about you, whether you’re hot or not.

**krisTALsaidso**: i know, gross

**krisTALsaidso**: what are you doing for thanksgiving?

**CoryroC**: I’m supposed to drive to my dad’s and have it down there
with him and his girlfriend in the Springs.

**krisTALsaidso**: aw ;( i was going to ask if you wanted to come to
boulder

**CoryroC**: Aw :( That would be nice. Though I’m driving back up from
the Springs straight to school, I could come see you then. :)

**krisTALsaidso**: really? could you give me a ride to school then?

**CoryroC**: Of course :)

**krisTALsaidso**: yay ill let my parents know

**CoryroC**: Cool :) Maybe you can show me some of Boulder when I pick
you up

**krisTALsaidso**: yepyep its a cool place

**krisTALsaidso**: i need to go to bed cor :(

**CoryroC**: :(:(:(:(

**krisTALsaidso**: im sooooorry. i need to

**CoryroC**: I suppose I can let you go ;) Sleep well. I’ll talk to you
later.

**krisTALsaidso**: thanks hun. you sleep soon too. \*\*MWAH\*\*

**CoryroC**: Hehe, mwah.

**krisTALsaidso**: :)

**krisTALsaidso**: bye :)

I read through the conversation again once the icon on the window turned
from green to grey before closing the window, closing my email without
reading any of it, and telling the computer to suspend. I climbed back
into bed once the screen went dark and stretched out on my back. I’m
sure I fell asleep still smiling.

The next morning, I felt just as good as last night had made me feel,
and so the drive down south to visit my dad didn’t seem to be that big
of a deal as I packed up everything I needed for school once more in my
car and said goodbye to my mom and Jared. My mom kept telling me to have
fun and be safe, and Jared just kept grinning at me in a way that made
me want to slap him.

“How’s it goin’, jerk?” I asked my car as I settled into the seat again
for the first time in nearly six months. I spent a minute or two making
sure everything was adjusted to my preferences before starting the
little sedan up and setting it into reverse, letting off the brake and
just touching the gas to get the car smoothly up over the hill of our
driveway and onto the street again, grateful that I could once again
describe anything my car did with the word ‘smoothly’.

Once I wound through the southern edge of town and got back onto the
highway headed up the pass, I settled back into the rhythm of driving
once again, sipping at my coffee and lifting a CD out of the center
console to slip into the player. I let Bernstein lift me up over the
pass, easing my way along with traffic carefully and relaxing at the
sight of real snow piled all around me, not the thin, anemic stuff that
Fort Collins called snow.

Once I was over the pass, the drive became easier and afforded me plenty
of time to think, considering I still had a few hours to go until I
reached my dad’s. I struggled to digest the recent abrupt change in my
life and more easily put it into words.

Kris had walked into my life with an ease that belied how much she had
come to mean to me. My attraction to her, to her height, to the way she
did her hair and the clothes she wore, her belly and her hips, and even
her breasts; to her personality and her laugh and the way she always
called me ‘boy’ or ‘Cor’, somehow morphing my name into ‘heart’ in other
languages. It seemed obvious to me why I had fallen for her, until I
took her gender into account, and I was confronted with the fact that,
for all of my life as long as I could remember, I had never been
attracted to girls at all.

Pacing myself with traffic and watching the road with half my attention,
I set the other half to try to define what it was that I liked about
guys that I didn’t like about girls. There were, of course, the obvious
physical differences — I could hardly deny the fact that most girls
simply weren’t attractive to me. I chalked up stereotype after
stereotype under the female column and countered each with a stereotype
about guys before scrapping that project.

Maybe it was just Kris? I tried to define what was different about her
that didn’t seem to fit in with my previous definition of Girl. She
certainly did seem more easy-going than most of the girls I had been
friends with, and she did seem surprisingly unself-conscious, a trait I
had found distinctly lacking in many of the girls at my school. Thinking
back on it, though, the same trait reared its ugly head in guys, and had
been a large part of why I had focused less of my attention on the guys
at school and more on those I met on the internet.

I did my best to skirt the possibility that my mom had mentioned, that I
was just going out with Kris because I was trying so hard for something
different than what I had in high school. I felt that I couldn’t be that
shallow, and more than that, I wanted to give Kris the benefit of the
doubt. Clearly there was something about her that had caused me to let
her into my life and to get as close with her as I did.

My thoughts were derailed as my mind wandered from trying to define Kris
to trying to picture her, which led to the inevitable thoughts about the
night before break. I shifted slightly in my seat and winced, kneading
the heel of my palm down against the crotch of my pants as if to stiffle
the erection that had resulted from such thoughts. I settled for
rearranging the uncomfortable situation in order to continue thinking
about it.

The sex had been perhaps the most surprising part of it all. Where I
normally was so nervous around guys that I could hardly perform, that
night had gone startlingly smoothly in my opinion. It took me a few
minutes to remember the fact that both Kris and I had been a little
drunk, which certainly must’ve helped with my nerves. I struggled with
the conflicting feelings of the experience going counter to everything
that I had previously desired and all that I had enjoyed about that one
night a few days ago.

Sex, it occurred to me, was just sex, no matter with whom. I suppose I
could’ve enjoyed sex with just about anyone, so long as the desire was
there, so that wasn’t part of the problem. Of course, that just brought
me back to pondering the source of my desire for Kris, which really
boiled down to the question I’d been asking myself for nearly eight
years now: why did I generally prefer guys in the first place?

I shrugged off this dead-end and slipped in a different CD once the
Bernstein finished, going back to remembering about that night instead,
and thinking of how good it would be to see my girlfriend — girlfriend!
— again.
