---
title: Chapter Eighteen
weight: 18
date: 2008-12-01
---

The confusing swirl of dreams resolved itself into my alarm chirping at
me from my desk. I reached a sleepy hand up above my to whack at it
until I managed to hit the snooze button. I rested on my back for a few
moments longer before rolling over to slap at the power strip on the
floor until I found the switch, gratefully rocking it to the ‘on’
position.

My computer’s fan buzzed briefly to life at the sudden burst of power
before the case reminded it that no one had yet hit the power button.
More importantly, though, a vague hiss signified my coffee maker just
starting to heat up. Everything was on the power strip, and before going
to bed, I had loaded the coffee maker with grounds and water. I had
turned my computer off, turned off the power strip, then turned on my
coffee maker, despite no power going to the device. It was the closest
thing I had to an automated system.

I dozed lightly for another few minutes until my alarm chirped at me
once more, and this time, the smell of a freshly made pot of coffee was
enough to get me to swing my legs over the edge of the bed and rummage
around on my clock for the switch to turn the demanding alarm off.

I shifted my bulk over to my desk chair and fumbled with the container
of powdered creamer that I had mixed sugar in with when I had purchased
it, dumping a healthy portion into my travel mug, followed by a sloppy
pour of coffee to fill the mug the rest of the way.

I freely admitted to being one of the world’s stupidest people in the
mornings, so streamlining my coffee intake process was a very important
deal.

I stared dully at my computer’s screen as I sipped the acrid but
caffeinated drink, and all I could do was wonder how monitors showed the
color black when they were a brownish shade of dark grey when the pixels
were off. My thoughts climbed slowly through the strata of rational
thought, lifting away from primal urges, into base emotions, then
logical thought, and finally, after nearly twenty minutes, the more
complex emotions.

Relief. It was Friday. The week following Thanksgiving was, I had been
told, the last real week of school. I knew that next week would be what
was called Dead Week or Hell Week, depending on who you asked. The week
before finals. Relief sank into a mixture of fear and depression — fear
for the upcoming exams and depression at the thought that the exams
would be followed by a month at home.

I tried thinking about the week past instead, but was confronted by
confusion and frustration at the memories. Trapped by negative emotions
on either side, I gave up and swallowed the last of my coffee, slipping
into my robe and the dollar pair of flip-flops I used as shower shoes.
My towel and I made our way to the showers.

The bathroom was delightfully deserted now, at not-quite-six in the
morning. The powerful spray of very hot water struck me in the back of
the neck and woke me up the rest of the way in only a few seconds. I
cursed quietly as I remembered that i had gotten up this early in order
to try running again. Now that I was awake and in the shower, the idea
just seemed absurd and stupid. There was a foot of snow outside, I would
likely freeze, and I just plain didn’t want to.

Instead, I stood in the shower for a while, letting the hot water keep
me warm. Finally, I shampooed quickly and rinsed myself off, grabbing
the towel from the stall door in order to dry myself off as best as I
could in the cubicle before wrapping the towel around my waist and
slipping back into my robe.

I headed back to my room to get dressed and pondered my options for the
sudden burst of extra time I was now blessed with. I decided I would go
get some breakfast, since the dining hall would likely just be opening,
then head over to the library for a bit.

Full of eggs and clutching the morning’s second cup of coffee safely
ensconced in the travel mug, I half-jogged toward the looming bulk of
the library from my dorm. I slipped in and stood in the spaceous lobby
for a few moments to warm up. A quick look at the clock told me I had
about forty-five minutes until class started. Plenty of time.

I didn’t come to the library to check out any books. I had only ever
checked one out during my time at the school, and that was for a class.
Instead, I just wanted to walk around inside. The sight of all the
books, neatly ordered on the shelves and smelling of beautifully aged
paper seemed to do plenty for me when it came to thinking.

I made my way downstairs to the fiction stacks and moveable shelves,
walking slowly and holding my coffee cup close against my front. I
passed shelf after shelf stacked full of words and meaning and let my
mind wander.

Kris and Jamen were currently battling for center-stage in the theater
of my thoughts. Jamen had efficiently avoided me for nearly a week by
now, ever since we talked on Saturday. I would see him in the hall and
he would look right through me, heading back to his room as soon as he
could. I hadn’t said more than a greeting to him since then; I hadn’t
had the chance to, what with him always ducking away like that.

It weighed heavily on me that for some reason, a person I had considered
my friend was doing his best to not speak with me or be around with me,
and considering our conversation on Saturday, all signs pointed to that
delightful mess as the reason for him avoiding me.

I ducked into an aisle between shelves and trailed my fingers along the
smooth spines of the books there as I dwelled on Jamen. I had become
obsessed, arguing with myself all week long about who he had been
talking about during our conversation about aversion therapy
organizations. Possibilities ranged from ‘he was lying, it must have
been himself’ to ‘his boyfriend’ and ‘maybe a sibling?’ All those and
several more seemed just as likely.

And Kris. We had spent all of Sunday together, and it had been decidedly
wonderful. She had commiserated with me when I had talked about Jamen,
and I had listened to her describe the rest of her vacation with her
parents, filling in the details that I had missed during our talk in
Boulder, learning more about the dynamics of her family. Just catching
up with her as we walked around campus was enough to get me back into a
positive mindset. Eventually making our way through the Oval, we held
hands and talked until it started snowing. Since her dorm was closer, we
made our way there instead of heading to mine as we usually did.

Finding myself in the corner of the stacks, I turned toward the movable
shelves, walking slowly and thinking of that evening. Shivering, we had
shed our jackets and brushed the snow out of our hair. We kicked our
shoes off and climbed up to her bed to wrap ourselves up in her
comforter, clinging to each other as warmth returned slowly, aided, of
course, by shared affections of kisses and touches.

What started as a game of warming the frigid hands on the other’s skin
soon made its way further to, in Kris’ case, warming the cold fingers
beneath Cory’s waistband. I remembered the lump that had formed in my
throat as she had teased at me for a minute or so with no result other
than me getting more and more nervous.

I had tried, really. As much as one can try to respond to sexual
advances, that is, but no such luck. The more I tried, the tenser I
became, the more nervous I felt, and the more nothing happened. I
suppose it really hadn’t been all that long, but it felt like forever
before Kris pulled her hands from my pants once more and slid them
around my sides instead.

“What’s wrong, Cor?” she had whispered.

I just shook my head and slid my arms around her more firmly, squeezing
her to my front and rolling carefully onto my back to pull her up onto
me. Her giggle at the maneuver made me smile. “Just feeling kinda
nervous or something,” I managed after a few moments. I leaned up to
kiss her before adding, “Just nerves, promise.”

She felt tense against my front as she returned the kiss. “Well,
alright.” She relaxed to let her legs rest down on either side of my
thighs, joking,“So long as it isn’t the fact that you’ve got a girl
messing with your junk and not a guy.”

I laughed and shook my head, doing my best to slow my heart at the fear
that that might’ve been the case. I let my own hands settle against the
small of her back, fingertips pressing in against her to either side of
her spine, rubbing in slow circles while I was there. “Nah, that’s not
it. Just nerves,” I repeated.

My ears were red even now, as I jabbed at the button on the edge of the
stack, a faint hum rising as the shelves of books slid smoothly on their
tracks, opening up the aisle of bound journals to let me in. I wanted to
feel even more secluded than I already was.

The memory went on. Kris had relaxed some at the careful massage I had
given her, hands wandering up over her back so that fingertips could
knead here and there. All of my touches helped to push her closer and
that, more than anything calmed me down; the feeling of her on my front
and my heart rate slowed to a more normal level. She had made these
little grunts of moans at the attention that made me laugh, which she
had hit me, however feebly, for.

After a few minutes of that, she had shifted above me and brought her
knees up so that she was kneeling to either side of my hips, straddling
them. I had responded then (as I responded now, making me thankful for
my parka and baggy jeans) and she picked up on that, for she moved
against me, pressing herself in closer and smiling, her nose inches away
from my own.

Ears flushed bright red, I shook my head and made my way towards a stair
well. There was no sense in dwelling on the rest of the time we spent in
her room now, considering I had fifteen minutes until class, and the
music building was a fifteen minute walk away.

Despite the cliche, the chilly air did much to help turn my thoughts
away from the baser portions of that afternoon. My brow furrowed as I
walked quickly. The downside of not dwelling on the actual sex was that
I wound up thinking about how nervous I had felt at first. I had felt
the same way around guys, too, but not to the extent that I couldn’t
even react to a sexual situation. The trouble, of course, being that my
current situation made that a whole lot more meaningful than it might
have been if it had been with a guy.

Doubts had clung to me all week long as I alternated between fantasizing
about the second half of the afternooon in her room and dwelling on the
first half. Even with all the time I spent thinking about it, I was
still unable to dissect what I had felt in order to find the root cause
of it. All that time, and I still didn’t know why I had reacted the way
I did — or rather, not reacted in the way I wanted to.

I shook my head angrily and picked up the pace of my walk to the music
building, reaching down on a whim and grabbing a handful of snow from
where it was piled next to the side walk, squeezing it into a clump of
ice until my fingers went numb. I dropped the ice and rubbed my hand
over my face, feeling the cold tighten my skin further. Dwell on it any
longer, I told myself, and you’ll make your fears into truth. Even if
it’s not the case, I railed on in my head, you’ll make it about her
gender, and you’ll never respond again.

My chest was filled with coals of determination and a longing to see
Kris again, and I let that warm me the rest of the way to class.

That evening, Kris lay against my front, the only thing separating us
being a thin sheen of perspiration.

My determination had carried me through the rest of the day. I forced
myself to think about the more pleasurable half of the encounter the
previous Sunday rather every time I found my mind wandering back to what
had gotten me so down for the week. Kris had been busy with projects for
most of the week and I saw her little so we had planned on spending
Friday night in my room again since Thomas would, as always be out. Now,
as the day progressed, I refined those plans in my head. I needed proof
that it had nothing to do with gender? Fine. Assuming Kris was up to it,
I’d get my proof.

Kris, it turns out, was indeed up to it, so what began as canoodling
while listening to music went further beyond that, and we had watched
each other undress after Kris had remarked that we had never really seen
each other naked. My nerves had started up at that point and I felt
logic getting in the way of lust. As if she was reading my mind, though,
Kris had distracted me, and now here we were, sprawled on my bed, still
naked, with Kris relaxed on my front and the covers half over the both
of us.

“You, boy,” she said, breaking the silence. “You’re all sorts of crazy.”

“Mmhuh?” was all I could manage as I fought off the post-coital
drowsiness

Kris laughed and lifted her head to put a kiss on my throat. “You’re
just weird. What brought this on, anyway?”

“Brought what on?” I laughed, slipping my arms around her waist.

“This, dork. The sex.”

“I dunno, just been thinking a lot about Sunday,” I replied. It was true
enough.

“Well, cool, I guess.” She stretched against me before rolling in my
grasp, tugging me onto my side along with her. She twisted about until
she was nestled back against my front. “It’s certainly nice. Just crazy.
We were all concerned about rushing, then bam! Three times in three
weeks.”

I laughed and kept her held against my front, “Yeah, I guess. Guess I’m
a pretty standard guy, what with the thinking about sex all the time.”

“I noticed,” Kris shot back. “You had me worried for a bit there on
Sunday, and even some today.”

“I was worried, too, kinda.”

“Yeah? I thought you were going to tell me it was all a mistake or
something, you really were gay.”

I held on a little more tightly and she hugged my arms to her front.
“Yeah, I’ve been beating myself up over that all week,” I blurted out. I
rushed to finish before losing my nerve, “I don’t know why I got all
nervous, but almost convinced myself it was because I was gay.”

I felt Kris tense up against me as she nodded. I kissed the back of her
head and murmurred into her hair, “But I think we proved that wrong.”

Kris nodded again and squeezed at my arms in her hands. “I didn’t know
you were thinking about it all week,” she replied quietly. “You
should’ve told me.”

“Oh... I’m sorry. I didn’t want to... I dunno, scare you or anything by
bringing it up.”

“But I want you to talk about it, Cor,” she mumbled. “If you don’t talk
about it, then I dwell on it too. We could’ve at least worked things
out. Not that I minded this proof of yours, of course.”

I nodded a little and held onto her quietly.

“Promise you’ll keep me in the loop with how you’re feeling about this
relationship?” she prodded.

“Of course. We’re in it together.”

“Duh,” she laughed, wriggling herself back against me. “Sometimes it
sounds like you’re quoting lines from a movie.”

I lifted my head a little to seek out that spot on her neck that I had
decided was the perfect place to kiss. “Mmf. Sorry.”

Kris wiggled all the more before turning in my grasp to face me, hugging
one of her arms up around my back and staring me in the eye. “I’m
serious, Cor. Promise you’ll keep talking to me if you keep feeling like
that.”

I nodded and did my best to hold her gaze. “Promise.”
