---
title: Chapter Seven
weight: 7
date: 2008-12-01
---

The rest of that first weekend was a flurry of, I thought, useless and
overwrought activity. There were two more tours of the campus, to add to
the two I had already taken. There was a series of games we had to play
in one of the large grassy areas to the west of the student center that
were probably intended to get us to relax but were almost universally
greeted with sarcasm. All the new freshmen packed together so that our
sweating bodies spelled out ‘CSU’ while a photographer on the roof of
the recreation center took our picture. I had a bit to do for marching
band, but other than that, the first weekend of school had very little
to actually do with school.

Eric, Joseph, Jamen, and I all hung out together for most of the
weekend, sampling the food at a few of the other dorms around the campus
and finding a few places that actually served food worth eating. Mark
and I headed to a coffee shop north of campus and ran into Kris there,
where we watched a woman who looked rather a lot like Kris only taller
cook omelets and waffles, drinking our pricey espresso drinks and
feeling out of place.

My roommate didn’t show up until Sunday night at about ten. I was just
heading to bed, but since he needed to unpack all his stuff, I figured
I’d stay up a bit longer and talk with him while he did so.

Thomas was a short, fit looking kid with a week’s worth of stubble on
his cheeks and chin, colored red, brown, and gray. He moved in a dazed
sort of way, though he didn’t seem particularly confused. When he
talked, I could tell he was a little stoned.

“So,” I ventured. “How were you able to get out of this weekend’s
madness?”

“I’m a sophomore, just chillin’ in the dorms for another year,” he
drawled. “Didn’t get my act together last year. Heh. ’Sides, I ain’t
payin’ for this place, m’ dad’s got that covered.”

I smirked and nodded, lounging back in my desk chair. The thing was
something of a mockery of a rocking chair: it had two rails along the
bottom like a rocking chair, but they were straight and shaped so that
it only had three positions: forward middle and back. “Good thing. Bunch
of bull this weekend, I thought.”

Thomas chuckled in that stoner rumble of his, “Yeah, I ’member that
shit. All team building and ‘go rams’ and hype. Fuckin’ gay.”

I hid my wince behind my travel mug of water.

“Anyway, ’nough of that. I’m in for journalism, how ’bout you?” he
continued blithely.

“Music eduation.”

“Oh, teacher, cool. I respect that. Whatcha play?”

“Trumpet,” I replied, gesturing to the narrow case by my bed with my
foot.

“Awesome,” he said, nodding. He nodded for about thirty seconds, hands
absent mindedly arranging books again and again on his desk. I got the
feeling he was a little eccentric, like he was hearing music in his head
that he was nodding to. Maybe he really was just stoned. “Hey, uh...
Cory. You... y’know... smokeup at all?”

“Er... no,” I shook my head. That answered that, then. “Not against it
or anything, just never had the chance.”

“Oh, cool, cool,” Thomas mumbled, getting his stuff all put away and
sprawling back on his ratty covers. “I, y’know, I’m kinda into it a bit.
Heh heh. A lot, really. Just let me know if it bothers you, and I won’t
do it in her or anythin’.”

My stomach turned a little in my nervousness. I hadn’t screwed around
with drugs at all in highschool, though I’d read plenty: I knew all the
good sites. My parents had both talked about it some and discouraged me,
each in their own way. Didn’t stop me from being curious, though. “I
really... well, I guess I don’t care. Never been around it. I’ll let you
know if it bugs me.”

“Mm.” Thomas had pulled out his MP3 player and started fiddling with it.
I sat for a bit before getting up to turn off the light, leaving my
roommate with his desk lamp and music. College was a bit of a let down
so far. The dorms were only passable, my roommate was questionable, and
here I was already thinking about drugs, and I hadn’t even had my first
class. It all made me feel rather pensive about myself and my situation.
