---
title: The Consequences of Dissonance - Chapter Eight
weight: 8
date: 2008-12-01
---

Wednesday. I’d made it through all of my classes at least once.

My schedule had Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays fairly full with only
composition and symphonic band on Tuesdays, plus a large block of time
that I’d scheduled for my independent study type math class. So far, all
I’d done in class, though was gotten a bunch of papers: syllabi, grading
rubrics, a few questionaires. We’d played some sort of name game in all
of my classes except for band, which still required another audition.

I ran into Eric a good deal at the new music building. It was quite a
walk from the dorms and we both made the trek there for our
early-morning classes. The fact that the building used to be the old
Fort Collins High School only served to make everything seem more like
my old school. The campus was open, sure, and the classes were more
specific, but it was still walking around with a backpack carrying too
much stuff through room-lined hallways.

Along with Eric, Joseph and Jamen took to spending a good deal of time
in my room. It turned out that Jamen already knew my roommate from
somewhere else, though he wasn’t exactly specific where from. On Tuesday
night, I came home to find a TV occupying some of the empty space by the
window between our two halves of the room. Jamen and Thomas were parked
in front of it watching Starship Troopers, and the whole room smelled a
little of nag champa incense and a muskier undertone. Judging from their
giggles and glassy eyed stares, I could guess how Jamen knew my
roommate.

And so... Wednesday. Trudging across campus on I had sat next to Kris
during composition, since she was the only person there that I knew, and
we talked a litte more as we made our way out of the engineering
building, apparently the only place they could stuff this inconvenient
class. She was into jazz and rock from Japan; I liked computers; she was
raised Christian but felt more Buddhist about everything; I was
apathetic, raised by apathetic parents; she wanted to be a writer, or at
least an editor; I didn’t want to be a teacher, but it would make me
money. She was a pretty funny girl, and one of the few people I had
gotten to know in my five days at school, and she apparently felt rather
the same way, so we made plans to get together for lunch the next day
with a few of each of our friends.

And so... Wednesday. Trudging across campus on tired feet with my mug of
coffee, talking with Eric to keep from spacing out.

“Man, I’m friggin’ jealous of my roommate. His classes don’t start until
nine. I mean, I guess that’s only an hour later, but that’s an hour of
precious sleep,” he whined.

“I hear ya.” I swapped hands holding my mug so I could shake the other
one out. August mornings were much warmer down here on the plains than
up in the hills. “It’s like.. all our academic classes are in the
morning, in music, and all our ensembles in the afternoon.”

“Well, it’s good for us singers. We had choir in the morning in high
school, and it’s pretty rough.”

“I guess it makes sense, yeah. Everything started at seven thirty in
high school, too. Dunno why eight in the morning feels so damn early
now.”

“Wow,” Eric laughed. “I think that’s the first time I’ve heard you
curse. Did your parents always get down on you for that?”

I felt my cheeks redden, but chuckled along with him. “Yeah, I wasn’t
supposed to cuss at home, and guess I never got around to it at school.”

“Never got around to it,” Eric smiled. “Fuck. Goddamn shit,” he added
and I burst out laughing at the look of relish on his face.

“Yep, fuck,” I said in response. “It’s hard to shake the feeling of
living under someone else’s rules when you’ve done it for eighteen
years.”

Eric nodded, “We’re free now, though.”

Walking through the underpass beneath College Avenue, the main
thoroughfare of Fort Collins, I remembered about Kris, “Oh yeah, going
to lunch at Parmalee with this girl I met in my composition class and
some of her friends. Noon. Want to come, too?”

“What? Meeting girls already? You band kids are such players,” Eric
laughed as I socked him in the shoulder.

“It’s not like that, I promise,” I said, adding silently, ‘I don’t go
for girls.’

“Sure, that’s what you say now. Anyway, yeah, I’ll come along. I think
Joseph has class, but if I run into him, I’ll get Jamen to come along
too, if you want.”

“Yeah, go ahead. You’ll probably see him before I do.”

Eric nodded and waved, ducking up along a more northerly path towards
his class as I continued on toward the front of the building and my
theory class to review what I’d already learned in highschool.

Theory was followed by history, where I spent more time looking at the
teacher than listening to him talk. I shook myself out of it a few
times, trying to convince myself to pay attention. I’d always catch
myself staring again; at least it looked like I was paying attention. He
was a grad student and a bit of a looker. He reminded me of Jamen

I had a spare hour after history before a manditory meeting of the music
department and I decided against the long walk home if I’d have to walk
back. I walked around for a few minutes before I found a few chairs on
the landing of the grand staircase above the entry way to the school. I
picked one in the corner and pulled out a book to read, but I wound up
getting distracted by the singers next to me talking and laughing,
letting myself get caught up in their conversation.

The departmental, the meeting I had to go to, turned out to be just a
bunch of rules I’d already read, so I spent most of the time zoning out.
I had skipped breakfast and was looking forward to lunch. Food and
friends.

Despite time dragging its heels, eleven fifty rolled around before too
long and Eric and I hurried out of the music building. The dorm we were
eating at, Parmalee, was most of the way across campus, and we weren’t
even technically on campus. We walked quickly and laughed as we talked
along the way. We even met Jamen in the plaza in front of the student
center by chance and dragged him along with us, easily overcoming his
objections of wanting to take care of his math homework, the same type
of stuff I was supposed to be doing.

We were only five minutes late for our noon o’clock lunch at the dorm
and waited to be swiped in to see Kris and one of her friends loitering
just past the entrance. She smirked at us as we we waited to have our
IDs scanned, tapping at her decidedly watch-less wrist. I gave her a
helpless shrug and a stupid grin.

“Hey Cory,” she said, gesturing to her friend. “This is Erin, my
roommate.”

“Nice to meet you. This is Eric,” I gestured in turn, feeling stupidly
formal as I did so. “And Jamen.”

There was an awkward pause for a moment before Kris burst out laughing
and we all chuckled, “Effin’ stupid. We gotta get food before I
implode.”

We made our way across the dining hall and then down a narrow hallway to
what was apparently another section of the cafeteria, Kris explaining
over her shoulder, “Parmalee and Corbett are attached at the kitchen.
The Corbett side’s better. All sorts of Mexican and stuff over there.”

We split up when we got to the Corbett side and each went to one of the
different ‘restaurants’ they had over there. Kris, Jamen, and I wound up
waiting in line for quesadillas while Eric and Erin sought out one of
the main entree lines; they seemed to be hitting it off fairly well.

“So how’s the whole school thing going for you guys?” Kris asked,
leaning back against one of the poles of the rope barrier, standing on
the base with her heels so that it didn’t tip over.

“Good enough,” I mumbled. “Boring so far.”

Jamen shrugged and crossed his arms over his chest, “Too much politics.”

“Wow, already?” Kris winced.

“Yeah. You can tell some of the teachers don’t like the others in the
art department, and there’s all this seniority crap that some people
take way too seriously.” Another shrug, then, “Oh well, it’s all good.
How ’bout you?”

“Oh, I dunno, I’m having fun so far.” She nodded her head at me as she
said, “Our comp class is a bunch of crap. I think our teacher’s a
fundamentalist.”

I laughed and nodded, “She’s pretty nuts.”

Jamen grinned and nodded, “Mine too. We started talking about writing
arguments, like how to argue a point, and she wants us to focus on gay
marriage this semester.”

“So? What side are you going to write about?” Kris asked. She had gotten
there before me. It was one of those innocuous questions that could tell
you about your friends before you outed yourself to them. Couch it in a
current news item.

“Well,” Jamen mumbled, blushing now that he was on the spot. “I’m all
for it. Gay marriage, that is.”

“Good!” Kris laughed and looked pointedly at me, “I’d have to question
your taste in friends, Cory, if Jamen here was against it.”

I blinked, taken aback, “Er? Well... why?”

“Well, my brother’s gay, but too lazy to be an activist about it, so I
do it for him!”

We laughed a bit and I swallowed the rising bile — I had been worried
that she knew that I was gay and was about to blurt that out in front of
Jamen. I had wanted to tell everyone on my own terms.

Jamen, being the first in line, got his quesadilla first and wandered
off to the table that Eric and Erin had picked out and were already
holding an animated discussion over. Kris watched him go, then looked at
me side-long, “And you are too, aren’t you?”

Stunned once more, I nodded a little bit.

“It showed in your reaction.” She looked at me a little more intently
and laughed, “Hey! Relax! I just said I was alright with it, didn’t I?
Its not like I’m gonna shun you and tell all your friends.”

I must’ve relaxed visibly because Kris giggled again and gave me a
half-hug, one hand taken up by her quesadilla on a plate. I returned the
hug awkwardly. With her hair, she came up to about my nose. She smelled
like peppermint. “Just relax, get your food.”
