---
title: The Consequences of Dissonance - Chapter Thirty
weight: 30
date: 2008-12-01
---

I decided I would stay up in Steamboat until Sunday in order to spend a
bit more time with my mom and Jared, though the latter I tried to avoid
for the most part. It did, however, give me a chance to head out with my
mom on another few of her forays out with the dogs. The mountains were
comforting, and the more I thought, the more I had to share with my mom
who, I felt, was much easier to talk to than many others in my life. She
seemed eager to get out of the house, as well.

So Saturday came, and found us following the dogs as the dolphined
through the snow, leaping up above it to either side of the trail rather
than plow through it. They would occasionally get tired and find their
way back onto the packed down patches to trot along with us, but as soon
as some noise, real or imagined, made its way through the trees, they
were back off into the deeps, leaping through the heavy powder. Less
adventurous, my mom and I stuck with the trail and occasionally called
after the dogs when they made their way out of site.

“Mom,” I asked as we watched the dogs forge ahead. “What do you think of
me being bi?”

“Oh, I don’t mind. You’re the same person, after all,” she shrugged.
“Why, what’s up?”

“Oh, just thinking,” I trailed off, waiting until we wrangled the dogs
back in to continue. “It just feels like I’m coming out all over again,
is all.”

“How so?”

“Well, I’m certainly having more conversations and stressing out more
about this than I ever did when I came out in the first place.” I
thought for a second before amending that, “Well, maybe not more stress.
Still, a lot.”

Mom laughed, “Yeah, you stressed yourself out pretty good about that. I
can see what you mean, though. We all seemed to worry a lot about you
and Kris.”

“Had to work to keep myself from worrying, too,” I added. “Just didn’t
want to scare myself away from the relationship.”

“Well, yeah,” she trailed off. “That was partly intentional, I guess.
However subconsciously.”

“Huh? How so?”

“Well, at least on my part. I just felt you were rushing into things, is
all, and I wanted you to think about that and make sure you weren’t.”

I held my tongue for a few steps, counting to ten in my head. By the
count of fifteen or sixteen, I calmed down. “Always looking out for me,”
I joked. Better that than taking it the wrong way.

She nodded and we walked alongside the two panting dogs to the edge of
the property. Finally, standing near the fence, she turned to me. “So do
you have something else worrying you? Besides the second coming out and
all.”

I shrugged and racked my brain for the root of what was really worrying
me. “Well, my friend Jamen came out to me in part because of it.”

“Oh?”

“Yeah. Kinda made me realize how lucky I had it when I came out. His
parents didn’t do so well,” I continued on with the story he had told me
the night before.

“Ouch,” mom winced.

“Yeah. Now I almost feel like I’m squandering my relatively positive
experience by dating a girl. I don’t think he really believes that but,
well, it’s hard not to feel bad.”

We turned back toward the house and called the dogs with us, walking
slowly as my mom replied, “Yeah, I can see how that would be a little
strange from the other point of view. Do you think that maybe he likes
or something that you’ve had your bit of drama with him?”

“I dunno. It’s possible, I guess. We talked a little but to be honest,
haven’t done a whole lot of hanging out during the semester. I don’t
want to just confront him on it and make things all weird by asking, but
who knows? I guess we’ll see how things work out.”

She smiled and nodded, then, “Just don’t... lead him on or anything. I
don’t want to see you hurt by weirdness, but I’d rather you not hurt
anyone else, while you’re at it.”

I shook my head violently. “Of course not. I’m a little paranoid about
hurting others, I think.”

She nodded and added, “Better to err on the side of caution there. You
can really mess a person up for life, hurting them like that.”

We walked the rest of the way to the house in silence, each with our own
thoughts. Me, I was wondering why my mom had ended the conversation like
that. It’s the fate of ever child of divorced parents to wonders about
the causes of their separation.
