{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The morning's alarm startled her awake.  She had thought that the end of grad school had meant the end of six-hour nights of sleep, but apparently, that had not been the case.\
Blearily, she pawed at her phone until she managed to swipe in the right direction to turn the alarm off.  It was tempting to go back to bed - after all, the Lost weren't going anywhere, she mused - but she managed to at least kick her feet out from under the covers and sit up.  in bed, letting her frizzed hair hang down around her face and shield her from the world for just a little bit longer.\
It was her phone, as always, that brought her back to reality.  It's mere presence, even silent as it was, was enough to draw her back into the problem at hand.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf0 Ramirez\
Another, this time with scans from before the incident.  Another furry, you don't think that's got to do with it, do you :p\
S\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 The brief message from her colleague left her puzzled until she'd put it together that he was talking about one of the other subjects' past records, indicating him as a member of a fandom.  Sanders didn't honestly believe that people who pretended to be animals on the 'net were more predisposed to get Lost than anyone else.  And, to be honest, neither did Carter, even after giving it the token consideration.\
All the same, the thought stuck with her through her two cups of coffee that morning, the first in the kitchen and the second out of a travel mug on the L as she headed out towards the UIC campus.  \\textit\{Another furry, you don't think that's got to do with it\}.\
She felt sluggish, and craved another cup of coffee even after she'd reached the bottom of the mug she had with her.  The thought nagged at her, caught like some spinning shape against the threads of her thought in a way that the rattle and screech of the train couldn't displace.  It tugged those threads free, stitch by stitch, until it reached...what?\
Until it reached the hem, and then the same thing over again.\
"Holy...holy shit.  Holy shit." Carter said, startling the elderly lady next to her.  She murmured an apology and fished her phone out, thumbing in a quick message to the team.}