{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 "Something's not right, boss, he's totally unresponsive!"\
"Pull him, pull him!  Hit the panic!"\
Caitlin, who had backed out moments before, and Sarai both lept to RJ's sides and pulled eir hands up from the cradles in the way that they had been trained, rocking em back from the headrest to lean back against the back of the chair. Eir body flopped lifelessly against the cheap plastic mesh.\
Caitlin slapped the small red button on the side of the monitor.  Her fingers came away dusty: rarely were panics used in a theater.  Below the desk, drives sparked to life and dumped the last thirty minutes of both sim and brain activity from the user.\
"The hell?" Johansson said, reaching in a thick pair of fingers to press against the side of the sound lead's neck.  "Pulse is fine.  Check his eyes, Sarai.  Caitlin, call.  Now."\
Shaking, Caitlin pulled her phone from her bag and started to hastily struggle to unlock it to get to emergency services.\
"They're rolled back, boss.  Bloodshot, too."  Sarai moved over to tug back the collar of RJ's shirt, checking eir spinal implant's simple color-coded readout.  "Blue.  What the hell\'85"\
"He's not jacked in, though," Johansson said, eyes boring into Sarai.\
"I think-" Sarai trailed off hoarsely, cleared her throat, and tried again.  "I mean, do you think he's Lost?"\
"Caitlin, what's our status, girl?"  Johansson growled before throwing the door to the tech booth wide and shouting out toward the stage, "Cut!  Manually shut off your mics and take a seat where you are.  Do not move.  Emergency services will be here soon, and will record what they can."}