{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 AwDae slowly picked emself up off of the floor, staggering to eir feet in the middle of a long row of lockers.  Ey hardly felt weak, but the shock to the system of being in the tech booth and theater sim, and then suddenly being back in high school was taking its toll on eir wits.\
Ey swiped eir paw from left to right in front of emself to bring up the menu.  Only, no menu came up.  There was nothing in this sim, wherever it was.  Ey had no ACLs, and there was no global menu.\
Beginning to panic, AwDae felt behind emself, reaching for that sense of reality outside of the sim that should be at his back.  It was there, ey could feel it like a cool breath of air on the back of his neck, but there was something keeping em from being able to get to it.  A thin barrier, a membrane, like a sheet of plastic that kept him trapped within the sim.\
And then, with a jolt of pain through the back of eir neck and down along eir spine, it was gone.\
Throughout all of the practice runs and training on the workstation that had gone into eir education, that feeling had only come up a small handful of times before.  It was the feeling of being forcibly disconnected from the workstation through the manual expedient of removing the contacts from the cradles in which they rested.  It was the shock of being brought to reality from out of a sim with no disconnection.\
And with that, AwDae should've found emself back in the tech booth, trying to figure out what strange loop the theater had gotten itself into to freeze eir workstation.  The lockers never wavered, though, and now ey found emself stuck in eir old school with no contact to the world outside of the sim, or whatever this\'85place was.\
The lockers were enough to tip em off, but sims - if that's what this was - could contain any details, so ey started to walk slowly down the halls, memories coming back in a wash as ey made eir way along the hallway, nails clicking against the tile, following the math wing to the student center, a cavernous open area that acted as a terminus for all of the different hallways, each one hosting a different subject.  They spread away from the cavernous room like limbs, a giant insect clutching at the earth.\
Once inside the student center, AwDae sat down once more and tried to reach towards reality once more, rolling onto eir back in eir increasingly frustrated attempts to pull away from the contacts, even though that shock of pain suggested those in reality had pulled em back.\
Frustration, anger, fear: all simmered within em, working up to a boil as ey tried increasingly harder.  Finally, ey gave up and, hastily brushing tears from eir eyes, slipped out of eir jacket, swished eir tail to the side, and lay flat on eir back on the cool terrazzo floor.  Ey pulled eir tux jacket up over eir face and buried eir muzzle in the soft lining, paws holding the cloth to eir face as ey deliberately let the tears come, seeking any kind of release from the tension building up inside of em.\
It was a few minutes before ey peeled the coat from eir face and managed to stand back up once more.  Ey tiredly slipped eir arms back into the sleeves of the coat, letting it rest on eir shoulders once more and drape, unbuttoned, around eir slim frame.  Before continuing, ey bent down to roll up the cuffs of eir slacks to keep them from bothering eir feet.\
It was in the middle of the second cuff that ey realized the absurdity of the motion.  In the theater sim, ey didn't have a body, and when ey 'woke' in eir normal sim, ey was dressed only in the clothes ey had put on when ey went to bed, though usually ey remembered to disrobe before disconnecting, more out of habit than anything.\
Why was ey still in eir tux, then?\
AwDae puzzled over this for a moment longer before completing the act, setting it aside as something to look into later.  For now, ey needed to find eir way out.  Find eir way back out.}