{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 With her resolution planted firmly within her, she found it much harder to make it through the rest of the day.  Rather than wrangle the two competing strands of the work group into some cohesive goal, she spent much of her time distracted.  She was thinking about all of the ways in which she could possibly approach the cast or crew.  Would she be able to even get in contact with any of them?  Supposing she would, what would she even say?  "Tell me about your sound tech"?\
Eventually, though, the rush had worn off.  Toward the end of lunch, she had purchased tickets (at no small cost) and been hyped up about visiting the theater.  When the afternoon started to wear on, she found herself once more tied up in work.\
Avery and Prakash had both settled into the routine of investigating what had gone on before the incidences of the Lost.  Avery was collating what data they had from each case on the social front before the subject had gotten lost and searching for social connections between each of the cases.  Prakash, meanwhile, was digging through biochemical data that had been collected from each of the patients and searching for similarities for them, based specifically on the time before they had gotten lost, rather than during or after.\
Carter had supposed that this would be innocuous enough, but it seemed that Sanders had taken the opportunity of the boss dining out for lunch to chat with a few of the other members of the workgroup.  Not once, but twice while she was working, she had fielded private messages from some of her teammates.  Both had concerns around the direction of the project, and questions about the wisdom of separating the work group into smaller groups.\
In both cases, she reiterated that this would be another temporary investigation.  If it turned up any useful information, then they would have that conversation again in the near future.  If it didn't, then everyone would cohere once again afterwards.  There was comfort in the worlds, but all the same, Carter wasn't sure how much effect they were having.\
She had an idea, one she thought worth investigating.  Sanders, however, had an ideal.\
Or so Carter was assuming.  When assessing the team's standing on the issue, she had used a simple three point scale: for, neutral, or against.  What she hadn't asked was, in the common usage, how many fucks each of them gave.  There were, after all, two parts to making a decision.  Which way you'd vote, and how much you cared about that.\
Carter would easily estimate Sanders giving ten out of ten fucks against this current plan of dividing the team for exploratory purposes.  In fact, until this afternoon, she would only likely have given seven or eight fucks.\
That question hadn't been asked, though.\
This afternoon, it was the combination of determination to see if she could learn more for the project and the sense that she was on the right path that had bumped her up on the number of fucks she gave.  And, if she was honest to herself, the hope of proving Sanders wrong.  There was no small amount of competition within academia, after all.}