{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 AwDae wound up in a simple, pleated skirt and a rather plain shirt.\
The skirt fit well with a tail, certainly far better than having eir trousers sag beneath the base of the tail awkwardly.  It was a nice robin's egg blue, but otherwise undecorated.  After all, most decorations would get lost in the distance between the stage and all but the closest audience members.\
The shirt was made for someone with broader shoulders.  RJ might have filled it out, but on the fox's slim form, it was rather baggy, which ey could hardly complain about.  Again, it was a plain white, but it didn't compress eir fur down too much, like the tux shirt with its fake pleats along the front had.\
Ey spent a few minutes considering what to do with the tux.  On the one paw, it was just an artifact.  In theory, everything out here was just bits, even eir own body.  By choosing clothes that were 'more comfortable', AwDae was simply instructing the sim how best to treat eir body.  Clothes that were more comfortable were no different from clothes that weren't, it was just how the numbers added up.\
On the other, though, the tux was the only thing ey had brought with from reality, if such a thing could be said.  It might just be a set of bits and bytes, but it was eir set of bits and bytes.  Something to tie em back to the world outside this sim.\
Ey finally came up with a solution and found a pack that had obviously gone along with some war-themed production.  Drab and dusty, made of thick canvas, it would do well to carry along anything that would help, including eir notes ey had made.  Ey laid eir tux out on the ratty sofa and rolled it into a tight cylinder; an empty sim would care little if eir tux got wrinkled.  Ey stuffed the tux down at the base of the back and folded the notes into a small pocket on the side.\
Finally, thus equipped, ey headed back to the auditorium on a whim.  Once there, ey made sure that the room was put to sleep, and, without even thinking of it, snagged the one live microphone ey'd found earlier.  Ensuring that it was off to conserve batteries, ey added it to the notes: a small token of where ey'd come from.\
"Not going to do much without the receiver, much less a sound board to plug into," Ey murmured, then shrug and buttoned down the flap above the pocket.\
Ey briefly considered food or rations before dismissing that as an even sillier idea.  Ey didn't feel hungry or thirsty, even after so long in the school, so obviously, eir body had been taken care of.  There was nothing ey could do about it from within the sim.  All that food and water would do would make the sim tell eir body that the pack was heavier.\
From their, ey made eir way back toward the front doors of the school, pushing them open against the pressure differential, the breeze outside ruffling eir fur and skirt as ey stepped out into the sun once more.}