---
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/05/30/dimensions-of-character/
slug: dimensions-of-character
title: Dimensions of Character
date: 2012-05-30
---

One of the things I've noticed more and more as I continue to grow up - not sure
I'd call myself a grown-up, yet - is the way in which the divisions in our life
become both less clear and more profuse as time goes on.  I think my first
intimation of this came at about the time I was finishing up middle school (8th
grade, in my district), and started secretly reading up on this whole "gay"
thing, on the suspicion that I might fall into that category.

It wasn't a really easy thing for me to accept about myself at the time, as I
suppose it rarely is for a kid in the southwest States.  Colorado is a unique
state in that, while much of its area is of a more conservative, Christian
character and not generally accepting of homosexuality, there is a stretch that
goes from about Fort Collins on down south of Denver along the front range that
tends to be more socially liberal and less religiously oriented overall, and
certainly more open to differences in sexual orientation than the surrounding
areas.  I spent a lot of time growing up in that front-range area where most of
those around me likely would've been okay if I had come out, and some of them
would have probably rushed to tell me just *how* okay it is to be gay: Boulder,
as a town, is almost intrusively cool with it.  Even so, there was this
sensation that if I were to leave the Denver-Boulder area, I would be
immediately be set upon by both protesters and perpetrators of hate crimes both.

What can I say, I was a dramatic kid.<!--more-->

That's why I started reading about it more and more.  I started to look into my
preconception that there was this line drawn around my home cities in fat
sharpie on the map, with the insides colored pink, and the outsides a horrible,
soul-sucking blackness.  That sense didn't jive with what I started to
experience at school, middle school being a particularly difficult portion of
life to deal with.  There were kids in school would would, it seemed, readily
beat me up for being gay, and there were people whom I met from outside of
Boulder that seemed perfectly reasonable and nice about the whole thing.  Of
course, the whole concept didn't stand up to the slightest bit of scrutiny as
soon as I started to look outside of my personal experience.

My big breaking point, however, came when I found the Kinsey scale, which
divides sexual orientation into seven degrees, from 0 - Completely Heterosexual
to 6 - Completely Homosexual.  Before then, bisexuals were something of a myth
to me, and much of that was due to the way I originally came out when I
frequented forums as a kid.  One started bi as a way to test the waters, see if
everything was alright, and then one jumped in with a big "ha ha oh just kidding
I was gay the whole time".  Anyone who stayed bisexual, I was told, just wanted
to have sex with guys, whether they were male or female.  Such was life in the
middle of America as a pre-teen, I guess.

Once I had found the Kinsey scale, though, things changed drastically.  It
wasn't just that the scale had been named after and promoted by a man with a
'Dr.' in front of his name, though that certainly helped, and it wasn't just
that the scale was built so that there was a number in the center without having
the maximum value be an odd number (as a child, I had an irrational hatred of
odd numbers).  Rather, it was that there was such a thing as a non-binary aspect
to this portion of my existence.  I had been, until then, convinced through the
doxa I was immersed in and my own lucubration that there really were only two
choices in life: male and female, gay and straight, hamburger and cheeseburger.

After that, my interest only grew.  I can't honestly say that I jumped directly
into the study of non-binary modes expression and identification, but as I
continued on to high school and even beyond, into college, I kept finding things
that were not as simple as I had previously imagined them to be.  I suppose
everyone goes through such a period in their life, but for me, it always seemed
to come back to that original "discovery" that much of which we assume to be
binary through the workings of social doxa or our own incomplete comprehension
of the matter is, in fact, a gradient, a cline, a continuum.

The next big stepping stone for me, in terms of comprehension, came after I
started to read up more and more about gender disparity and transgender issues,
for even though I dated a wonderful trans guy in high school, I still had little
to go on in terms of *really* trying to understand those issues.  I understood
the whole concept of gender identity versus biological sex, and I even had some
inkling to there being some sense of non-duality through my scant interactions
(at that point), with intersex and hermaphroditic individuals; however, some
portion of my mind kept catching on the snag that there really were only two
sexes and two gender identities, and that transgender folk simply had a mismatch
somewhere in there.

The actual moment came when I found a funny looking poster of a stick figure
(which I wasn't able to find, exactly, but
[here](http://itspronouncedmetrosexual.com/2012/01/the-genderbread-person/) is
the closest I came up with) which described not only biological sex and gender
identity as gradients, but also gender expression, along with the familiar
sexual orientation.  "Whoa," I thought, "Here I was going about this all wrong,
and in much the same way as before!".  It wasn't so much that I had rediscovered
gradients in life, as that I really started to comprehend the multidimensional
nature of what is often taken for granted, if not declared outright to be the
norm.  Gender, when I was growing up, meant boy and girl, penis and vagina, the
simplest explanation.  When I started to get older, I started to understand that
there was such a thing as gender separate from biological sex, but only in a
psychopathological context, when they did not match up and it caused identity
issues.  It took a goofy stick figure poster to knock me into the sense that
there were multifarious dimensions to what had previously been a relatively
simple concept for me to understand, insofar as I was capable of doing so.  I
was A. Square finally comprehending that there was a third, possibly even a
fourth dimension.

In both of these instances - discovering gradients and discovering new dimension
in definition - I found myself applying these new-found ways of looking at
things to the world around me.  I was lucky, though, in that the world around me
took place largely online in the form of interacting with animal people.  The
benefits of interacting online so much are myriad, but the two most pertinent
ones are that I was *a)* able to do research quickly and easily and *b)* able to
investigate the "paper trail" that I and so many others had left behind.  In
short, my almost subconscious reaction to learning these new things was to
immediately try to apply them to furry.

Like all such slippery concepts, I wound up going down quite a few blind alleys,
barking up a quite a few empty trees, and several other appropriate metaphors
too numerous to list here.  I tried to apply these concepts either too
liberally, or not liberally enough, to the world around me and found some ways
in which they were more helpful than not in explaining the ways in which I and
others interacted with the fandom and with our own understandings of or
identifications with anthropomorphics.

In fact, in the last paragraph, I touch on at least two very important gradients
and dimensions of character that have come up time and time again:
anthropomorphics and, for many, identification with a subculture built off this
interest in anthropomorphic art, role playing, and character creation.  Within
those, as within all aspects of membership and identity, are at least three
different dimensions making up one's association: interest, participation, and
creation.  Interest, of course, is how much one is interested in such a thing,
how much they read up on it, how much they take in.  Participation, on the other
hand, is how much that person actively integrates themselves into the thing they
are interested in: creating an account on FA, browsing art, favoriting images,
watching artists, leaving comments.  Finally, there's the aspect of creation.
 Beyond simple participation, this is the means by which someone can contribute,
give back, post to FA, and gain the participation of others in turn.  All of
these may be thought of as gradients, where the levels with which one may show
interest, participate, and offer up unique creations.

These are, of course, just simple examples of the varying dimensions and
gradients with which one can interact with the fandom, of course, and there are
just as many, if not more ways to identify with anthropomorphic animals outside
of just the furry fandom.  As I was writing all this, I started to think that,
in at least one way, it all sounded familiar.  It took me a moment to place
where, but the further back I looked in my past, the closer it seemed to get
until finally, I remembered.  FurCodes.

With how much time I spent thinking about those things, it's remarkable that I
was unable to really internalize the whole concept of gradients and dimensions
in so many aspects of my life (no one ever accused me of having an
over-abundance of intelligence).  These simple, one-line codes of letters and
symbols are an accurate summary of much of what I was talking about just a few
paragraphs up.  For every thing in our life that we take to be black or white,
true or false, totally binary, there is a good chance that it is not nearly so
simple, but embodies a full spectrum of hues, saturations, and values.  I plowed
through the process of creating a code again and came up with the following,
answering relatively truthfully:

FCA3amr A- C++ D+ H+ M++ P R T W+ Z Sm+ RLCT a cl+++ d! e++ f+ h+++ iwf+++ j+ p+
sm+

None of this should really be of any surprise, of course, but a few things
caught my eye and offer a good example to prove my final point.  It feels as
though it has been a really long time since Zines and Doom have felt pertinent,
and the division of age into entire decades seems almost quaint these days.
 Age, it seems, has not exactly treated the FurCode very well.  That is the
final, most important of gradients or dimensions out there to take into account:
time.  All of the things I have mentioned so far in this post - sexuality,
gender, association with the fandom and anthropomorphics - and really most
everything out there has this aspect of time tied to it that is so rarely
thought about.  All of the things that we hold to be solid and true in life are
tied to time in one way or another (some of which seem a
little [surprising](http://discovermagazine.com/2009/mar/08-kilogram-isn.t-what-it-used-to-be-it.s-lighter)).

I was dead-set, utterly convinced that I was straight, then that I was gay, and
for a period after that, that I was bi.  I was totally comfortable in my gender
in terms of how it matched up with my biological sex, and then I was thrown into
a whirlwind of confusion.  I was definitely sure that I would always have a
'Zine or two pertaining to the fandom, that I would always be a wizard on a
MUCK, that I would always be FCFp3dwa.

Clearly, this isn't the case.  Time is a tricky thing, and yet, if I take a step
back and take a look at the trajectory of my membership to the fandom and my
association with anthropomorphics, I have no trouble in understanding or even
appreciating that time is just another dimension of character, whether literally
in the sense that my character is constituted of various different aspects of
myself at a particular time, or more metaphorically, that time is a part of
defining my sense of character.

There are so many different dimensions and gradients in character, and within
association to the fandom and to one's personal character or characters.  I've
listed a few, such as species and time, or the means of interaction that we have
with the fandom, whether it's interest, participation, or creation.  What other
aspects are there?  Are any of these particularly pertinent in your own
situation?  I'd like to see some comments with some of your own stories as to
what dimensions you've found important in your lives, and what things have
surprised you by being a sliding scale instead of a duality.

(time as the most important dimension and gradient out there)

\* For those who are curious, here is my code
[decoded](http://winterwolf.co.uk/furcode?D=FCA3amr+A-+C%2B%2B+D%2B+H%2B+M%2B%2B+P+R+T+W%2B+Z+Sm%2B+RLCT+a+cl%2B%2B%2B+d%21+e%2B%2B+f%2B+h%2B%2B%2B+iwf%2B%2B%2B+j%2B+p%2B+sm%2B).
