---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/06/12/adding-structure-to-life/
slug: adding-structure-to-life
title: Adding Structure to Life
date: 2013-06-12
---

Every now and then, it's important to take a step back and gain a little bit of
perspective. It sounds cliché, of course, and there are a lot of people in my
life I can imagine scoffing at the type of post I'm about to write, if not that
very phrase itself. In fact, there are plenty of other posts that I have in the
docket, but they can wait for another time, and I hope you'll begrudge me a
fluff post while I gain my perspective.  Also, a trigger warning for some brief
but frank discussion of suicide, and excessively sentimental foxes.<!--more-->

There's a lot that can be said about emotion. Hell, there's a lot that has been
said about emotion; so much so that there is only the most minuscule of portions
that bear repeating. If there is one thing worth noting, though, it's the
intensely dire sensation each of our own emotions carry to us. They press
against us and burden us with incredible weight, and even though there's a lot
of really flowery prose one could write about just how much our emotions impress
on us, it really just boils down to the fact that an entire portion of our brain
is focused on *feeling* things at all times, almost without rest. This
dire aspect makes it quite difficult to accept commiseration, to comprehend that
many of us try to understand those around us be way of relating their
experiences to our own. To hear someone say that "what you're feeling is just
like when I felt something exactly like it!" Or "that's something that everyone
goes through." To hear that this burden isn't yours and is hardly unique is not
a comfortable thing to hear, no matter how true.

I go through bouts of depression about once every six or seven months that last
for about a month. I freely admit that this is hardly uncommon. Freely because
I'm actually feeling really good right now, and have been for a bit. I can
remember the urgency and importance of the way I felt, even when it's not
something that's pressing on me *right now*, as it was then. This
difference is sometimes a vague feeling: like, "yeah, feeling good is different
than feeling bad". Sometimes it's a very concrete sensation, such as now being
able to tolerate heights as something that's merely scary, and not "oh God am I
going to jump!?".

Being able to take a step back, no matter the cliché, is the sort of helpful
thing that lets me see and understand what exactly is going on, and,
understanding, helps provide me with a path forward. Not a solution, of course,
just a path. I don't do meds; I have a deep-seated paranoia of that attempt at a
solution despite seeing them work wonders for someone very close to me. Their
reason for taking them is very situational by their own admission: given a very
nearly unsolvable problem and no time to work on it, one takes what space one
can in order to move forward.

That's what the step back grants me. Even though the source of my own
overwhelming emotions is something decidedly innate, something more biological,
the space gives me the room to take that into account. If, for example, I give
myself the room to understand that those feelings of hopelessness and dread that
seem to be stemming from work are more just the handicapped sense of self
involved in depression, then I can more easily make the choices I need to stay
healthy.

This is really new to me, honestly, and thus my fascination. I started to
understand it last year in October and November when I was going though a
similar period, but it occurred alongside a work trip to Copenhagen that left me
no room for myself. Heathrow's terminal 5, with it's glass-walled balconies and
walkways, and the hotel's
[looming](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ranna/8128316641/) [15
degree](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ranna/8128342888/)
[tilt](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ranna/8164105438/) made me frankly fear for
my life. The previous March saw an attempt at suicide, and the very limited
amount of space I (figuratively) had to step back into was hardly enough in
November for me to work with this problem constructively, and it took getting
kicked back by the motor tic in my neck coming back after an absence halfway
through the trip and forcing me to slow down to understand just what this space
meant to me.

April and May were much different. Things started to go pear shaped in
mid-April, and, though the tic had once again left, I knew right away what I had
to do. I slowed my velocity at work (with my boss's blessing), held off on
writing any articles, and took the space I needed to stay healthy. There was
another work trip on the middle of this, but it was out in California, where,
even though I was still working my tail off during the day, I had more of a
support network than Copenhagen had to offer outside of work hours. While things
got their worst after that trip, I still had my space, and so everything was
different. The aching pressure in my chest was far less than before, along with
the sense of dread and suicidal ideation. Things were off, but as long as I
could take that step back, they hovered a notch or two above 'bad'.

That's a lot of words, and not one of them was 'furry', 'subculture', or
'fox-person'. For those of you still reading, I appreciate your tenacity,
because honestly, it's this furry subculture, this ability to be a fox-person
among friends that provides the framework I need to remain grounded while taking
these countless steps back, lest I just withdraw completely into myself.

Toward the end of the summer of last year, it was JM who IMed me to ask how I
was doing. My emotions were coming through in my articles, he said: I was on
point when I was happy and maudlin when I wasn't (I know this is basically the
most maudlin thing I've ever written, but stick with me here). I took time off
then to gain some space and work on improving things, but having this framework
kept me from zooming off to far into the distance. Most poignantly, it was the
death of my friend, Margaras, that helped prove the worth of maintaining the
ties I had with those in my social circle, furries all.

The fandom as a subculture plays a very unique role in or lives, I've noticed,
in that it provides a sort of skeleton that we can use to help give our lives
their structure. I found myself discussing this with two LDS (that is, Mormon)
missionaries who stopped by the other day, when I asked them how their faith fit
into their lives in terms of identity; I was raised by two staunch atheists, I
didn't experience religion as a community until a brief stint attending a
Unitarian Universalist church in my early twenties. Their conversation lead to
the topic of chosen family, that closest of social circles. They said that their
growth out into the world had structure, pacing, and direction that they felt
would have been missing without the framework of their church.

I said at the time that I agreed with them: having that missing from my life led
to the described lack of direction in my own growth.  My time in the dorms was a
stark example of that. However, in light of these last two months, and all that
I've learned over the last year and a half, I'm not sure that I had told the
truth. Furry is lacking a lot of things that make a church, and so yes, my
growth within the fandom was hardly predictable; no mission for me. But that
said, it was still just that: growth within the fandom. I have this framework in
my life to add meaning and direction. That's what kept me and so many others
going after Margaras' death, what got me through last march and the end of the
year, even what helped me during this last sprint. I still had structure, even
if I didn't feel well.  Something to hold me up and keep me from deflating
completely.

A few weeks ago, I tried to explain some of these thoughts in the form of a
small experiential game, a little bit of interaction intended to convey a point,
called [A Full Life](http://a-full-life.drab-makyo.com/). In it, your goal is to
make the fullest life you can, even when there are things standing in your way
preventing you from feeling fulfilled, your sense of 'full' handicapped. I think
that these frameworks - the church for those missionaries I'd talked to, furry
for me, and countless others - help us out. They don't necessarily solve
problems (and may often cause them), but they help keep that handicapped sense
of self from constricting too small and squeezing out *everything* that's good
in life.

So. Apologies for the wash of an article, and thank you if you've made it this
far, but do me a real big favor: sometimes, when you've got a bit of time, think
about the ways this fandom is meaningful to you. Think about the ways you must
be meaningful to those around you. Maybe take a moment to talk about it with
someone, or if not, at least just appreciate it. I know I do.
