---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/08/07/species-selection-and-character-creation/
slug: species-selection-and-character-creation
title: Species Selection and Character Creation
date: 2013-08-07
---

This weekend, I had the privilege of helping facilitate a panel at Rocky
Mountain Fur Con 2013 surrounding the topic of species selection and character
creation.  The panel was a delightful discussion about the ways in which we
build up the avatars we use to interact within our subculture, and why exactly
it is that we choose the animal (or animals) that we become with our character
(or characters).

That's not all, though.  I also had the privilege of sitting down with Klisoura,
\[a\]\[s\] contributor of Furry Survey fame, and having not only several
delightful discussions on topics as diverse as tennis balls and coyotes, but
also a little impromptu hack-a-thon in the hotel lobby on the subject of species
selection.  This tied in well enough with the panel that some of the results of
that were shown during the Q&A after the discussion, and even led to several
other conversations with various different furries over dinner and the next day.
The whole weekend was a blast, but I'd like to tie up some of these conversation
threads and ideas into something worth showing here on \[a\]\[s\].<!--more-->

The title of that particular panel was the same as this post, "Species Selection
and Character Creation", and was intended to be something new for me, and, I
felt, relatively new for the convention as well.  Rather than sit behind the
table at the head of the discussion room and dictate a set of ideas to an
audience, my goal was to re-arrange the chairs in the room into a circle and
have everyone participate evenly in a sort of Socratic-style exploration of
species and avatar.  However, given the hour of sleep I'd had the night before,
it worked out somewhere in between.  While the Socratic "asking questions to
receive answers everyone already knows about themselves" part worked out pretty
well, I wasn't able to make real the truly participatory experience of everyone
being able to see each other.  I offer this as an explanation for not simply
posting the audio from the panel itself, though it was recorded.  If I get
around to mastering the audio well enough to make it presentable, I'll post it
here and make note of it. I think it's worth a listen!

I began by asking the room full of furries why they chose the animal they did
for their species, and I received a lot of answers that fit in well with my
experience of the fandom.  Notable among the explanations were the oft-used
words 'identity', 'connection', 'personality', and 'characteristics'.  And this,
of course makes sense.  Many introductions to furry, whether they're websites
(the first introductory website I found was Captain Packrat's explanation of
FurCodes) or friends, explain that although furry is about being a fan of
anthropomorphism *in general*, it often (but not always) specifically involves a
personal connection with an animal that leads to the creation of a personal
character: an avatar often used in interaction with other furries.

We all know this, of course, but it's always interesting to see the data bear it
out.  A discussion with Klisoura prior to the panel led to an experiment: is
such a thing visible in the answers provided by respondents to the furry survey?
It turns out that it is, in its own way.  On the survey, users are asked the
species of their character or characters, and then given room to provide an
explanation of just why they chose the species they did.  Free-text answers are
hard to parse down into simple one-way conclusions, and are not necessarily
available to be shared as they stand.  However, we can draw conclusions about
the use of language itself within these answers, and in this instance, we did so
by means of one of the simpler means of textual analysis: frequency counts.

We've analyzed the responses for many of the most popular species represented in
the responses to the 2012 Furry Survey.  Breaking this down by species not only
helps us spot keywords such as mentioned above, but also helps us see where
additional words, especially emotionally or spiritually charged words, are used
when identifying with particular species.  Let's start out with one of the
easier ones, for huskies, where I can point to a few of these words in
particular to explain what I mean:

![Husky word-cloud](/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/strip_husky.pdf.png)

We see our previously tagged set of words such as 'traits', 'personality', and
'always' (left in\* because it often shows up in constructs such as "I have
always felt like I was a husky").  However, we can also see several emotionally
charged words such as 'love'/'loved', 'loyal', 'cute', 'playful', and
'beautiful'.  These figure strongly as compared to other marked words such as
'cool', 'hard', 'submissive', and 'spiritual'.  Contrasting this with the cloud
for wolves shows the difference in species selection:

![Wolf word-cloud](/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/strip_wolf.pdf.png)

Here we see a shift in the tagged words to 'connection', 'identify', as well as
'personality', which I think shows a different attitude used to approach the
problem of species selection when creating a character.  Indeed, we see that
'spirituality' figures more strongly, along with 'pack', 'strong', 'spirit', and
'one'/'alone', while 'loyal' and 'social' are deemphasized.

Another interesting thing to note is that, among the several species\*\* we
pulled from the database, some are more strongly marked, such as the previous
two, and some are not.  Those who chose dragon as their species, do so for many,
many different reasons than wolves or huskies.

![Dragon
word-cloud](http://adjectivespecies.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/strip_dragon.pdf.png)

As you can see, there is less polarization around certain terms, both
emotionally marked and the previously tagged words; that is, the cloud is more
homogeneous.  There are a few potential reasons for this. One is the possibility
that dragons have cultural ties to more than just western culture.  Wolves have
both a strong mythology surrounding them in the west, as well as the advantage
of being important in current events, given the re-homing and conservation
efforts surrounding the species in North America.

While dragons do have a mythology attached to them in the west, it's very
different than their Eastern interpretations, which will lead to less
strongly-marked words and phrases showing up in analysis due to a wider spread.
Additionally, while dragons are certainly prominent now in fiction words, they
are not nearly as prevalent in current events outside of that setting.

These are just some examples, but I think it goes to show that there are indeed
some trends, both general and specific, that go into species selection among
furries.  That's only part of what goes into the creation of a personal
character, though, as I think we might achieve some similar results by asking
ordinary people to justify their choice of their favorite animal.  Thus, during
the panel, we also discussed the processes of character creation, growth, and
change.

One exercise that I think works well is imposing artificial restrictions.  This
was, after all, one of the foundations for the literary group Oulipo, of *A
Void* fame (*A Void* being a book written originally in French entirely without
the letter 'e', and then, perhaps even more impressively, translated into
English with the same restriction in place).  By imposing on ourselves
restrictions, we reduce the problem of unfettered, and thus directionless,
creativity.  In that vein, I asked participants to describe their personal
characters - fursonae, if you will - in one sentence or less.  The results are
telling:

> My persona is a reflection of myself ahead in life which I can use as a goal.

and

> My fursona is an extension of myself as I move forward in life.

Some were more verbose and specific along these lines:

> It's a coping mechanism, a way to become someone else and not deal with tough
times, or even provide an outside perspective on them.

and

> Who I strive to become, always a step ahead of me; as I gain attributes, my
character stays one step ahead of me.  It is my role-model.

Some people got even more creative:

> The person with whom I speak.

or

> Convenient, exaggerated wish fulfillment.

or simply,

> Me.

The theme of "a better version of me" was repeated quite often when discussing
both the ways in which characters are created, and the ways in which they
change.  I really think that this reflects well on us as a subculture.  A lot of
my focus, when interacting with other furries, is centered around being what I
see as an ideal version of myself, as well as just a fox-person.  Some of that's
simple and mechanical: "I wish I were able to more clearly express my ideas" and
"I wish I were more glib, quippier" are both aided by social interaction through
a text-based interface such as one might find online.  Beyond that, however, by
being able to have this version of myself that is better than me, I, as others
mentioned, have something to strive for, something to grow into.

Discussion along these lines continued after the panel itself, as a few of the
attendees convinced me to head out to dinner rather than straight up to bed
(thanks for that, it was the first real meal of the day).  While we ate, we
talked about what people took away most from the panel, and also came up with a
few additional ideas to help tie together the two ideas of species and
character.

One thing that came up was the idea that some gentle joking about species, a
sort of [lampshading][1] of stereotypes, helps to reinforce species identity
with regards to character.  Much, if not most of this, as pointed out by
Klisoura later on, is self-deprecatory.  This helps to forge familiarity between
people, especially among members of the same subculture, or even sub-groups
within that subculture.  Making fun of the chase-instinct in dogs by, as my
roommate (a husky) puts it, "huffing the scent of a new can of tennis balls", or
the face-first pouncing of foxes lending to the overall silliness of the species
helps not only to strengthen one's identity with that species but also to
provide a conversational starter among friends, or friends-to-be.  This can, of
course, be mis-applied or simply go too far.  The idea that wolves are a
dime-a-dozen, or that foxes are all "sluts" are complex and sometimes
self-reinforcing stereotypes that, by virtue of their being stereotypes, can rub
many the wrong way and cause no small amount of offense.

We also noted another interesting conclusion from the panel. Every time I run
the "Exploring the Fandom Through Data" panel, I bring up the idea of doxa -
that which we accept as truth without requiring proof - and how sometimes it
needs to be challenged when that which is accepted is not necessarily true.  For
me and several others, one aspect of doxa in particular was challenged during
the convention, and it was particularly surprising that this was the case.

One of the attendees at the panel brought up the fact that, during a time of
crisis, epiphany, or great change in life, sometimes one's character also goes
through change (in this case, a change in species from fox to rat), in a sense
reflecting external events in an extreme way.  Even though several of us were
surprised that such things as a turning point in life would be shown in
something so fundamental as one's species, it's one of those things that makes
sense upon consideration. Even looking back, for myself, the one time I truly
changed species surrounded a profound change in my life. Moving to college - and
all that is entailed in that, such as moving away from parents, getting a job,
and so on - affected me deeply.  That signified a total restructuring of my
life, even to the point where the old character I had inhabited, a red fox with
two tails, the tips of which were dyed green, no longer applied.  It was
high-school-me.  It was me-growing-up.  It is not me now.

The reactions from around the room echoed my sentiment.  While most were
surprised and intrigued at the concept of an external factor such as a move or
an epiphany having so large an effect on someone as to cause a sudden, major
restructuring of their furry identity, many, myself included, confirmed that
this is not infrequent.  Those who were most surprised felt that a sudden crisis
such as this would not lead to a major change, but rather influence the
direction in which their character grew.  That is, their goals would change both
for them as well as their character, though aspects such as species would
remain.  Unfortunately, we ran low on time before we had the chance to
investigate the differences in how these two rough groups dealt with their
character's identity, though it is worth investigating!  That there is even the
trope of the species-change-journal on FA is proof of this.

As a meta-furry resource, \[adjective\]\[species\] explores a lot of topics
surrounding furry, though it seems of late that the focus has been on topics
that happen to be ancillary to the fandom itself.  These are all dreadfully
interesting, I think, but so is much of the stuff at the core of our subculture,
this base layer that helps make us who we are.  These are the reasons we seek to
meet up together at cons such as RMFC, not simply these supplementary reasons
such as being ahead of or behind the rest of the world, any skews in sexual
orientation or gender, or even movies about cheetahs, though they may all help.
These core facets are worth exploring, as they help to form coherence among all
these different animal-folk.

If you are interested in more from the panel, the notes are available
[here](https://github.com/adjspecies/roundtables-and-discussions/blob/master/species-identity-and-character-creation/notes-RMFC2013-20130804.markdown).

----------

\* The responses were cleaned of some very common words that tended to skew the
word-clouds, such as articles (the, a, an), conjunctions (but, and), and the
species' name and plural form of the name which, of course, show up quite often.

\*\* [Cats](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1444),
[cheetahs](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1445),
[coyotes](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1452),
[dragons](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1446), [red
foxes](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1447),
[horses](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1466),
[huskies](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1448),
[jackals](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1449),
[rabbits](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1453),
[tigers](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1450), and
[wolves](http://adjectivespecies.com/?attachment_id=1451).

[1]: http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/LampshadeHanging
