\subsection{date}
\subsubsection*{The Background}
This past week has been very, very busy.  School has started and the
semester is quickly picking up speed so that almost all of my free time
is taken up with either work, class, or something related to the two.
Classes are going well, for the most part, but I can't help but feel
that I really should be done with school, and I'm just wasting time
still taking classes without a degree.  I'm beginning to understand why
four years was chosen as the standard Bachelor's degree plan.

However, I am a little worried about going out into the real world.  How
much good will a Music Composition degree do me?  Will I be able to get
a job anywhere, possibly still working with computers, or is that
something that people really want a tech degree for?  Will my business
be able to support me by the time I'm out of school and, consequently,
out of my current job?

Basically, I'm fairly concerned about my near future.  This semester
seems to be clouded for me.  I can't anticipate the work-load, the cost
of classes, or even the general feeling of being in school again once
the semester gets truly under way.  Still dubious of `divination', I
drew the cards to look at the reasons for my doubtful feelings about
this semester, questioning myself, rather than time.

\subsubsection*{The Drawing}
Yearning to learn more about the deck, I used the Thoth\cite{tarotThoth}
cards and the spread described in the LWB (Little White Book) included
in the box.  As I'm not as familiar with these cards, and the minors are
little more than vaguely descriptive pip pictures, I also worked out of
the LWB for definitions.

As a bit of explanation for what may not be clear in the picture, the
spread is based off a four-armed star with a hub at the middle.  The hub
of three cards represents the Querent (me) or things or situations
close to the Querent.  Below and to the left are three cards
representing the psychological basis of the issue at hand, and to the
right of that are three cards representing the chaotic, external
influences on the issue.  Above the Querent cards are two possible
outcomes.  If they are in agreement, the cards to the upper-left build
upon the cards to the upper right; otherwise, the cards to the
upper-right indicate the natural course will take if no action is taken
to introduce change, and the cards on the left indicate possible changes
to alter the outcome. 

As I mentioned above, I'm not too big on the idea of `outcomes' and
reading into the future, so I'm interpretting these as two suggestions
of how to deal with the issue, following much the same rules as listed
for the two different groups.  One thing I do agree with about this
deck, though is the idea of elemental dignities, which I use more often
than reversals when reading.  This method allows the meanings of the
cards to mingle more freely, creating a deeper reading in my opinion.
Of course, it also means that I can store my decks with the cards all
facing the same direction, which pleases the OCD in me.

\begin{itemize}
  \item Querent (right to left): Six of Cups --- Adjustment --- Seven of
  Cups
  \item Psychological basis (right to left): Queen of swords --- Prince
  of Swords --- Prince of Disks
  \item External influences (right to left): The Lovers --- Princess of
  Cups --- Ace of Swords
  \item Outcome A (right to left): Seven of Disks --- Five of Disks ---
  Knight of Swords
  \item Outcome B (right to left): Hanged Man --- Two of Wands --- Eight
  of Disks
\end{itemize}
\includegraphics{file}

\subsection*{The Reading}
\subsubsection*{Querent}
In this group of three cards, two cards in the Cups suit surround a
Major arcana, and I think that this position really will affect the way
the cards are read.  In this instance, the trump Adjustment, strongly
indicating the idea of justice and balance is surrounded by the cards
labeled by Crowley as `Pleasure' and `Debauche'.  In the RWS school of
thought, particularly as set forth in \textit{Seventy-Eight Degrees of
Wisdom}\cite{pollack97}, the corresponding card ``Justice'' comes at a
period in the cycle of the Majors when introspection is heavily
emphasized.  ``Justice'' in particular shows how the impersonal forces
in life such as destiny, karma, chaos, or what-have-you tend to give you
what you deserve: if you strived toward one thing at the expense of
another, that latter thing will certainly be lacking in your life.  It
also indicates honesty, which plays out in the next two cards.

The Six of Cups in Crowley's deck indicates success and fulfillment,
whereas the Seven indicates more illusory success or delusision without
fulfillment.  With both of these cards being in the suit of water, each
of these ideas must be understood to have an emotional cast.  Therefore,
this group of three cards rather accurately shows the way I struggle to
balance the success I feel when attending school and doing well with the
lack of success I feel with still being in school at this late a stage
in my life, when I should be a productive member of society.  I've been
arguing with myself over whether all the success I've had in school is
``real'', fulfilling in any way, or even worth it at this point.
Adjustment suggests not only balancing those two ideas within myself,
but also striving for honesty: all of this schooling really is meant for
me to be seeking Truth in my life, but not all of it is accomplishing
what it should.  I have to be honest with myself when interpretting the
massive influx of data that schooling provides, applying what will make
me a better person in life in any number of ways without getting
distracted and becoming someone else through misapplication, such as
focusing too much on the performance aspect, when I know I'm not a
performer.

\subsubsection*{Psychological Basis}


