---
type: link
link: http://lovesexfur.com/2013/06/29/the-importance-of-role-play-part-1/
title: The Importance of Role-Play - Part 1
slug: the-importance-of-role-play-part-1
date: 2013-06-29
tags:
- About furry
categories:
- Essay
---

Sexual maturation is a process that, I would argue, lasts easily ten years, if
not more.  Sure, the body may be just about done with the surge of hormones
after a few short years, and you probably stop growing (and start shrinking) at
around eighteen to twenty years old, but the process of maturation is far more
than physical.  Even if it were to take an additional year to digest each year
of puberty's changes, a generous estimate, that still only gets you to about
twenty.  In my case, I would say that it took another five years to fully grow
into myself as a sexual person; that is, as someone who was not only capable of
having sex, but someone who was capable of sexual interaction, in all the ways
that implies, with others around me.

Honestly, I matured as a sexual being primarily online, and it was through text
and within the context of furry that I experienced many of my most formative
sexual experiences.  Role-play, TinySex, cybering, type-fucking, co-authoring
erotica - whatever you want to call it, the sharing of sexual acts and ideas
across distances and through text does play quite a role within the furry
fandom.  And, for better or for worse, I think I'm hardly alone in the style of
my coming-of-age.<!--more-->

I rather like the term "coauthoring erotica", myself.  It really does come down
to a process of playing out a fictional sex scene, except that rather than being
between two characters with only the agency of one author behind them, each
character has their own player with that player's own agency driving their
actions.  However, given the personal nature of many people's characters, it's
really more autobiographical than this makes it sound.  It comes down to a sort
of subjunctive autobiography: a way of describing what we would do in such a
situation.

Role-play of this sort is a stellar example of the interaction between fantasy
and real life, as one's actions in a primarily fantastical space can be tied to
the way one feels and acts outside of that space.  One notable example surrounds
orgasm in sexual role-play, and the idea that if one is planning on orgasm in
real life as well as online, they ought to happen at around the same time, thus
"lining up" the sensation for both the player and the description of what's
happening with the character. I'll be careful to note that this usually is
discussed in the negative: due to the refractory period, many find it difficult
to so actively consider sex as to continue, thus an awkward idle-out or perhaps
excuses leading to ending the session early being seen as an indicator of
getting off too soon.  

This also plays into the interaction that is going on between the two players,
who may strive to reach climax at the same time, consciously or not.  This is
aluxury of the medium, of course.  The shared moment of climax is seen as an
ideal. It isn't always as common in physical sexual encounters as it is online,
but more on that later.

So how exactly does all of this work?  There are obviously countless different
styles of RP, and there is hardly one common anatomy to a session.  However,
there are several common tropes that show up in sexual scenes.

* The **Romantic**: of course, sex and romantic love are often entangled, and
this is hardly challenged by the fact that the sexual act happens to be taking
place in a (semi-)fictional setting on the Internet.  This is of notable
importance for couples separated by long distances.  It's one way to experience
the shared pleasure of sex even when the physical aspect of that is not
possible.
* Not everything is so tied to two individuals in a romantic relationship,
however. The **Mysterious Stranger** is a trope surrounding one-off encounters
between people who don't necessarily know each other, similar to a one-night
stand, but often with rather less flirting or drinking than might be involved in
one of those offline.  The common factor here is that the two individuals may
not know much about each other than their [interests][1], and the thus the
flirting phase may be abbreviated (or even absent).
* Between these two extremes lies the **Just Between Friends** trope, which
involves a relationship between two or more people who, while they may not
necessarily be in a romantic relationship, still participate in sexual role-play
with each other.  Sex is often part of friendships, but when the sex is light on
consequences and heavy on a sense of fun, it's particularly easy to work into
many more relationships than one might ordinarily, but again, more on that
later.
* The **Sex Scene** is just what it says on the tin.  With role-play that lasts
longer than a single session, such as those that involve last over the period of
weeks involving several characters and participated in by several players, a sex
scene can happen and still fit within the overall arc of the plot being enacted.
This can be as vaguely defined as a sort of guild or school that generally does
things together (again on Tapestries, the St. Mary's School for Wayward Furs is
a good example) or as tightly controlled as playing out a plot defined in
advance.

Again, these are hardly universal, though they may show up often enough to be
seen as common tropes.  There are many different variations, including even
well-defined events centering around sexual RP such as Kitseve, a fertility
festival held on the Tapestries MUCK once a year.

There are a few other commonalities that I've noticed in a lot of sexual
role-play that are worth mentioning.  For one, most every scene leads to climax,
often for both (or all) parties, which is often less-common offline than it is
online.  This may be due in part to the sharper distinction between what is
sexual and what isn't in a text-base role-playing situation than in person.
Additionally, penetration of some sort seems to be more common online, as well,
perhaps due to the relative ease of typing about the process as compared to the
physical process itself, and perhaps due to it being "more interesting" compared
to other forms of sexual interaction.

TinySex, sexual role-playing, has played a formative role for me in my own
sexual maturation, leaving behind a sort of coming-of-age story of my own sexual
maturation (a *Bildongsroman*, if you will) in the form of logs and memories.  I
don't think I'm alone, either, in finding sexual satisfaction in the form of
writing about it with at least one other person.  For many furries, even for
many who just grew up with the Internet as their companion as furries are hardly
alone in this act, sexuality burgeons easily online for many reasons.

One of these is transgression.  It's interesting to note the ways in which we
act that align with what we think of as popular culture, and the ways in which
we transgress against that.  Kink is, in a lot of ways, one of the bigger and
more structured ways to do so.  It goes beyond just performing sexual acts
online, which is perhaps transgressive in its own way (though less so now than
it used to be - the decline in use of the word 'cyber' is something of an
indicator here).  With role-play, consequences are greatly reduced from similar
acts taking place offline, and so it acts as a facilitator in a way, allowing
greater and wider exploration into interests and kinks that one might not have
the chance to do otherwise.  Further still, there are things one can do in TS
that are simply out of the realm of possibility in real life, relying heavily on
the framework that furry provides to guide these plot lines.  From something as
common-place as canine knots to acts such as vore, furry helps give these both
context (canines have knots, predators eat prey), and structure (we are canines,
we are predators or prey).

Another important reason is the concept of consent.  I believe that defining
consent on a situational basis is one of the biggest parts of leading a
sex-positive life.  With role-play, though, consent relies heavily on
participation.  Power dynamics are softened by the fact that not consenting does
not necessarily put one in danger; not consenting can simply mean not
participating.  This isn't to say that there are no power dynamics, that there
aren't any abusive relationships due to this reliance on participation as
consent.  Rather that there is an easy way out of a situation one doesn't want
to be in: logging off.  One avenue that this helps open up is a safe way of
exploring consent and agency through fetishization of the same.  Both can be
played with safely as part of the plot of the scene.

Of course, it's also still personal interaction on a level that is deeply
important for many.  There's a lot to be said for shared experience, and thus a
lot to be said for the comfort in shared fantasy.  Writing a story and
expressing one's fantasy in words does cover quite a bit of ground, but it lacks
that interaction, and this co-authorship helps to provide that.  The solo act of
writing doesn't always satisfy that need.

I know I've been waxing rhapsodic about just how neat and awesome typesex is,
and I really do enjoy it (or did, at least, it's been a few years since I've
been *really* into it), but I can't posit an idea as something worth studying
and only look at the good sides.  It's not that there's some sort of huge,
sinister aspect to RP, of course, but it's worth considering that the being able
to work with fantasy in such a way is a means to having ideal sexual encounters.

The fact of the matter is that sexuality in real life rarely, if ever, includes
such scripted perfection.  We can't pause and decide what would be the ideal -
hottest, most well written, best for furthering the plot - next step offline
nearly so easily as we can online.  There's a lot to be gained from realism in
terms of getting off, what hurts, and all that goes into a sexual encounter.
There is certainly a place for sex within a relationship, and it's worth the
potential pain of real live physical contact to understand one's partner. The
unrealistic understanding of consent in TS is strange, of course.  It doesn't
apply one hundred percent outside of that context. Still, it's hardly a bad
thing to play around online.  An outlet is an outlet, and we all need those.

Role-play is most certainly not a furry-only thing, of course.  Intentional
role-play has been a part of life for most of human existence, I'm sure, and
sexuality is a logical extension of that.  Even online, it's very much not
restricted to furries alone: after all, the word cybersex wouldn't have been
this big, scary thing for my parents to warn me about back in the late nineties
without there being some type-fucking going on at the time.  However, we already
have the benefit of interacting through our intentionally constructed avatars in
the context of furry.  Adding sexuality in as an aspect only serves to further
that for a great many people.

[1]: http://adjectivespecies.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/Tapestries_Flow.png
