st ### Sunday, March 30

st *1:39 PM Markus>* Doctor Maura told me I should start journaling when this whole crazy process started. She said it would keep me grounded, let me set milestones of memory, some BS like that.

st *1:40 PM Markus>* I told her I'd give it a think and then promised myself I'd forget about it.

st *1:40 PM Markus>* But now, you're gone.

st *1:40 PM Markus>* You're gone.

st *1:40 PM Markus>* Oh god.

st *1:40 PM Markus>* You're gone.

st ### Monday, March 31

st *12:10 AM Markus>* I made it home from the hospital a few hours ago. My hand hurts. My heart hurts. So much paperwork to let someone go.

st *12:11 AM Markus>* They say I'll have to sign more tomorrow, and that I should get a lawyer.

st ### Tuesday, April 1

st *7:12 AM Markus>* I keep expecting you to still be here.

st *7:12 AM Markus>* It's not trite, like it sounds like when others say it.

st *7:13 AM Markus>* Not like I'm expecting you to come around the corner or come through the door.

st *7:13 AM Markus>* More like

st *7:13 AM Markus>* You're still at the hospital.

st *7:13 AM Markus>* You're still just at chemo.

st *7:13 AM Markus>* You're out of the house.

st *7:14 AM Markus>* You lost your phone.

st *7:14 AM Markus>* I guess that's trite.

st *7:18 AM Markus>* Though I turned off your phone.

st *7:18 AM Markus>* I could hear it vibrating every time I messaged.

st *7:28 AM Markus>* Couldn't tell if that made me feel sad or stupid, or both.

st *7:32 AM Markus>* Both, I think.

st ### Wednesday, April 2

st *2:30 PM Markus>* You made it to the funeral home.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* In one piece.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* Hah hah.

st *2:48 PM Markus>* Nice skunk working with me there is irked that I keep texting.

st *2:49 PM Markus>* Just showed him this.

st *2:50 PM Markus>* He got quiet and smiled and said, "You can keep texting."

st *2:50 PM Markus>* Feeling slightly less stupid, but no less sad.

st *3:08 PM Markus>* Cremation and all that goes with it is expensive.

st *3:08 PM Markus>* I mean, not super expensive. Cheaper than the other stuff.

st *3:08 PM Markus>* But we didn't really plan this well.

st *3:09 PM Markus>* Oh god.

st *3:09 PM Markus>* I almost made a suggestion.

st *3:09 PM Markus>* Oh god.

st *3:28 PM Markus>* You're gone.

st ### Thursday, April 3

st *10:02 AM Markus>* You came home in a plastic bag in a box.

st *10:02 AM Markus>* Lol

st *10:08 AM Markus>* this is dumb

st *10:08 AM Markus>* cryinf ovef a bvox

st *3:43 PM Markus>* Service Friday 4pm call Maru dad mom mil Jenna Jeff Selene flowers 664-1140

st *3:43 PM Markus>* ...

st *3:44 PM Markus>* Thought you should know, I guess.

st *3:44 PM Markus>* Kick me from beyond the grave if I start using this as a notepad.

st *3:44 PM Markus>* I know you would, too.

st ### Friday, April 4

st *9:51 PM Markus>* Okay.

st *9:51 PM Markus>* So.

st *9:51 PM Markus>* You know I hate your mom.

st *9:52 PM Markus>* I think that's supposed to be some Thing, that a husband must hate his wife's mom.

st *9:52 PM Markus>* But you know that, because I'm pretty sure you hated her too.

st *9:53 PM Markus>* I mean, you never said so to my face or anything, but you did all you could not to be in the same room as her.

st *9:53 PM Markus>* (I know you hate your stepdad)

st *9:53 PM Markus>* *hated

st *9:53 PM Markus>* crap

st *9:54 PM Markus>* sorry

st *9:54 PM Markus>* ...

st *9:56 PM Markus>* sorry

st ### Saturday, April 5

st *12:21 AM Markus>* Anyway, your mom was there at your service.

st *12:21 AM Markus>* Of course she was, I mean.

st *12:22 AM Markus>* She made it sound like I killed you.

st *12:22 AM Markus>* She said if her daughter had married another cat, it would've been fine.

st *12:23 AM Markus>* But no.

st *12:23 AM Markus>* You married me.

st *12:23 AM Markus>* And I don't know how, but somehow it became my fault that you died.

st *12:24 AM Markus>* We went from crying together over supermarket snack trays to terse arguments in surprisingly little time.

st *12:24 AM Markus>* She thought that if she'd married a cat, she would've had kids and a happier life.

st *12:25 AM Markus>* I don't know where the cancer came in, but she was convinced that this was somehow the cause of it.

st *12:26 AM Markus>* Marry a coyote? Get cancer.

st *12:26 AM Markus>* I mean, duh.

st *12:26 AM Markus>* She really wanted grandkits.

st *12:26 AM Markus>* (didn't tell her about the ligation. You never did, so I promised I wouldn't)

st *12:26 AM Markus>* Anyway.

st *12:27 AM Markus>* I'm really upset.

st *12:27 AM Markus>* The service wasn't meaningful. It was boring.

st *12:27 AM Markus>* Your mother aside, I think that's the most upsetting thing.

st *12:27 AM Markus>* Your service was boring.

st *12:27 AM Markus>* I got home at nine or whatever, and I just sat on the bed.

st *12:28 AM Markus>* I fell asleep in my nice clothes.

st *12:28 AM Markus>* Now I'm sitting on the bathroom floor waiting for the water to heat up, and it's already hot, but I'm still on my phone, just like you hate.

st *12:28 AM Markus>* *hated

st ### Sunday, April 6

st *10:10 AM Markus>* Thank you for leaving a will.

st *11:12 AM Markus>* Met with MiL again, this time with lawyers.

st *11:12 AM Markus>* Thank you for leaving me everything.

st *11:12 AM Markus>* Even your ashes. Your mom hated that most, I think.

st *11:13 AM Markus>* You left me with all of our debts, but you left her with nothing.

st *11:13 AM Markus>* Surprised I don't feel self-righteous or whatever. Just resolute. I didn't "win". If anyone won, it was you.

st *11:14 AM Markus>* But if I'd had to cede to your mom and stepdad that would have hurt.

st *11:16 AM Markus>* Thank you.

st ### Monday, April 7

st *2:18 PM Markus>* I formed your ashes into a rock by mixing them with water and baking until they got hard, and then I skipped it across the university pond.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* Kidding.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* I know you asked for that.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* I also didn't dump your ashes out in the parking lot of your office.

st *2:20 PM Markus>* I didn't dump them in the plaza fountain or flush them down a toilet at your office, either.

st *2:21 PM Markus>* Sorry. All your last wishes gone to waste.

st *2:24 PM Markus>* I took your ashes and drove up into the hills, because I decided this wasn't for you, it was for me.

st *2:25 PM Markus>* I'm sorry.

st *2:27 PM Markus>* I drove up into the hills until I got to one of those pull-aside rest stops, and I walked down to the river there, and I just sat for a bit and cried.

st *2:27 PM Markus>* And I wasn't thinking.

st *2:28 PM Markus>* And I cut open the bag of ashes and scooped a few pawfuls of water in there and mixed it up to a sort of smoothie consistency.

st *2:29 PM Markus>* And I poured it out on the river bank.

st *2:29 PM Markus>* And I kinda mixed and kneaded and massaged it into the river mud.

st *2:29 PM Markus>* And I just kinda cried and gave you up bit by bit.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* The water would splash up on the banks and I just let you be carried away bit by bit.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* Until there was nothing left but a messy spot on the shore.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* And I washed my paws.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* And it was super cold.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* And I only had my jeans to dry my paws on, so I just sat there like an idiot.

st *2:30 PM Markus>* Crying and puffing into my paws to try and warm them up.

st *2:31 PM Markus>* You'll be proud to know that it was disgusting.

st *2:31 PM Markus>* there's you all over that river bank

st *2:31 PM Markus>* and all over my paws

st *2:31 PM Markus>* and stuck in my fur

st *2:31 PM Markus>* and probably on my muzzle

st *2:31 PM Markus>* and the steering wheel of the car

st *2:31 PM Markus>* and the doorknib

st *2:31 PM Markus>* asnd your all over now

st *2:32 PM Markus>* and i thought I was saying goodbye

st *2:32 PM Markus>* and your still here

st *2:32 PM Markus>* i miss you

st *2:32 PM Markus>* i love you
