st ### Sunday, April 20

st *2:21 PM Markus>* I can't believe you set your password to that!

st *2:21 PM Markus>* I could spank you for that, miss prissy whiskers.

st *2:21 PM Markus>* You're such a dork <3

st ### Monday, April 21

st *1:02 AM Markus>* Lee

st *1:02 AM Markus>* Lee I'm so sorry

st *1:02 AM Markus>* I'm so sorry

st *1:02 AM Markus>* I'm reading it now

st *9:20 AM Markus>* stayed home

st *9:21 AM Markus>* cant stop crying

st *9:21 AM Markus>* sorry

st *9:21 AM Markus>* im so sorry lee

st *4:11 PM Markus>* I could kill him

st *4:11 PM Markus>* I WOULD kill him right now

st *4:28 PM Markus>* I would destroy him and your mom for all they've done if I could

st ### Tuesday, April 22

st *12:31 AM Markus>* I won't

st *12:31 AM Markus>* But I could.

st *12:31 AM Markus>* I'm sorry Lee

st *12:41 AM Markus>* I wish I could go back in time and help you.

st ### Wednesday, April 23

st *6:43 PM* Lee sent you a file "should-I-pass.txt"

st *6:43 PM Markus>* Sorry, wanted that on my end, so I sent it from your account.

st *6:48 PM Markus>* Apparently your account expires after six months inactivity.

st *6:48 PM Markus>* I wonder if I should keep logging on once a month to keep it active?

st *6:49 PM Markus>* Or

st *6:49 PM Markus>* Maybe I should let it expire

st *6:49 PM Markus>* And set that as a date to let you go

st *6:49 PM Markus>* Oh god Lee

st *6:52 PM Markus>* oh god

st *6:52 PM Markus>* i miss you

st *6:52 PM Markus>* you made me whole

st *6:57 PM Markus>* don't want to tgo on weifthout oyu

st *6:57 PM Markus>* sdf

st *7:20 PM Markus>* sorry

st ### Friday, April 25

st *5:10 PM Markus>* I'm calling your mom and Jun today.

st *5:11 PM Markus>* I'm going to invite them over this weekend and confront them.

st *5:12 PM Markus>* You're right in that it's just a document. No signature, no verification.

st *5:12 PM Markus>* Biot I need to do right by yuo/ i miss yuo, and i want to do right by you

st *5:12 PM Markus>* you tolfd me not to fight

st *5:12 PM Markus>* and i wont

st *5:12 PM Markus>* im just goin to tell thm i know

st *5:12 PM Markus>* tey need to know that someone else knowds

st ### Saturday, April 26

st *11:01 AM Markus>* Your mom and Jun are coming over tomorrow.

st *11:01 AM Markus>* I think I'm going to just tell them plain and simple, what I found.

st *11:02 AM Markus>* I hate them. I loathe them.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* But I owe it to you to not make it a big fight.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* Not on my part, at least.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* If they get angry, whatever. I'm just going to read it.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* Most of it.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* Read it and watch and make sure they understand that I know.

st *11:08 AM Markus>* I'm starting to second guess this.

st *11:18 AM Markus>* Like, obviously I'm upset, and obviously you wanted me to know that your parents are awful.

st *11:18 AM Markus>* But I'm starting to second guess what I'll get out of this.

st *11:19 AM Markus>* Even when I said I wouldn't make it a big fight, I was still coming at it from a vengeance standpoint.

st *11:19 AM Markus>* I wanted to hurt them.

st *11:20 AM Markus>* Still do.

st *11:20 AM Markus>* I just don't think that's totally right.

st *2:18 PM Markus>* I thought about it more, and I think I still need to share what you wrote.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* It'll hurt them, and it'll probably hurt me more than it already has.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* But I don't think any of us will be able to start grieving with the current state.

st *2:19 PM Markus>* ...I'm going to call Dr Maura.

st *2:48 PM Markus>* I wasn't expecting her to get back to me, but she actually picked up her phone on the first ring.

st *2:48 PM Markus>* I don't know why that strikes me as weird.

st *2:49 PM Markus>* We talked for a bit about what I should do.

st *2:40 PM Markus>* I told her about the letter you left. She agrees I should share with your parents, if only to give closure, like I said before.

st *2:50 PM Markus>* She says she's worried about me and wants to talk more soon.

st *2:58 PM Markus>* I told her about this, too.

st *2:58 PM Markus>* About sending you messages, even though you'll never respond. Just talking to you.

st *3:00 PM Markus>* She says it can be a healthy coping mechanism, but only to a point, and that I shouldn't lean on it too much, or I won't stop grieving.

st *3:00 PM Markus>* Makes sense.

st *3:01 PM Markus>* I promised I'd let your account expire, and would do my best to start moving on sooner than that.

st *3:02 PM Markus>* We also talked about getting through grief in stages. She says there are a few different lists of 'stages of grief', but that they're all just loose guidelines.

st *3:03 PM Markus>* She says it sounds like I'm going through some healthy stuff, but that she wants to meet again to make sure I keep going.

st *3:05 PM Markus>* She says that things could wear me out and make me depressed, or that things could be super easy and I could finish all the work I need to do, and realize you're truly gone and get depressed.

st *3:05 PM Markus>* I countered that I was depressed now, but I'm not sure about that anymore. I think I'm sad, and that depression will come soon.

st *3:06 PM Markus>* I'm sad, Lee.

st *3:06 PM Markus>* I'm sad and I'm tired and I want you back.

st *3:06 PM Markus>* I'm sitting on the floor waiting for the shower again. My tail's fallen asleep. I'm gonna go before you get mad, even if that isn't possible.

st *3:07 PM Markus>* I don't care if that's me grieving in an unhealthy manner or anything, I'm going to go before you get mad.

st *3:07 PM Markus>* I'll try to only write again after things with your parents.
