st ### Sunday, April 27

st *4:05 PM Markus>* This is weird

st *4:21 PM Markus>* Taking a break, this is still weird.

st *5:33 PM Markus>* WHAT THE HELL, LEE

st *5:33 PM Markus>* THE POLICE JUST ARRESTED YOUR MOM

st *5:33 PM Markus>* What the HELL

st *5:43 PM Markus>* Gave the police my report.

st *5:43 PM Markus>* What the crap.

st *5:46 PM Markus>* Okay, writing this all down before I forget.

st *5:47 PM Markus>* We met at that same coffee shop I met Jun at before. The Book and the Bean. It's got a bookstore in the back, I think we've been there before.

st *5:47 PM Markus>* Only this time, Jun looked sincerely upset and sorry.

st *5:47 PM Markus>* Like

st *5:48 PM Markus>* I don't know how to put it. He looked upset for me, not at me?

st *5:48 PM Markus>* And your mom looked extra pissed.

st *5:48 PM Markus>* And I don't know what happened, like maybe they got into a fight before getting here?

st *5:49 PM Markus>* So we were really quiet and Jun was looking down at his paws a lot and your mom was glaring at me a lot and I was tired.

st *5:49 PM Markus>* I hate coffee, but I got a mocha or whatever, because Lee, I've just been so tired.

st *5:50 PM Markus>* this isn't helping, i'm sorry.

st *5:50 PM Markus>* i miss yuo

st *7:32 PM Markus>* Sorry, I'll try again and get more to the point.

st *7:33 PM Markus>* So the more I thought about what I had planned, the less I really wanted to go through with it. So I tried to just sit there and talk with your parents about you and all the good time and stuff.

st *7:33 PM Markus>* I tried earnestly to patch things up, but your mom just told me she remembered things differently.

st *7:34 PM Markus>* And it was stupid, because I could tell Jun was sad.

st *7:34 PM Markus>* After everything.

st *7:34 PM Markus>* After everything in your letter and after the dumbass break-in attempt and everything.

st *7:34 PM Markus>* He was sad.

st *7:35 PM Markus>* He would smile a little at a memory I brought up, then look off away from your mom like he wasn't going to cry.

st *7:35 PM Markus>* And then your mom would get huffy, and he'd nod at her, and go back to looking at his paws.

st *7:35 PM Markus>* I don't know.

st *7:36 PM Markus>* I feel like he's as exhausted as I am, but for different reasons.

st *7:36 PM Markus>* So we took a little break because I felt like he and I were headed for a different conversation than your mom.

st *7:36 PM Markus>* So we got some more coffees and such.

st *7:36 PM Markus>* And I just kinda buckled down and did it.

st *7:36 PM Markus>* Before, when I was feeling more vengeful, I thought maybe I'd print off some copies and hand it to them all formally and wither them under my glare or whatever.

st *7:37 PM Markus>* But I just sat down and told them about the file and how I found it.

st *7:37 PM Markus>* How you'd written it to me, and locked your computer with a password for me.

st *7:37 PM Markus>* oh god haha

st *7:37 PM Markus>* damn

st *8:01 PM Markus>* I'm supposed to keep it together to finish this.

st *8:02 PM Markus>* How you always called me 'crazy face' but only over text because it sounded silly to say.

st *8:02 PM Markus>* And how you set that as your password, and addressed the letter to me.

st *8:03 PM Markus>* (I didn't tell them I called you 'prissy whiskers' in return.)

st *8:03 PM Markus>* And I told them what the letter was about.

st *8:04 PM Markus>* And as I started to talk about all that your dad had done and all that your mom and Jun did to cover it up I started to loosen things up

st *8:04 PM Markus>* And I started to feel lighter.

st *8:04 PM Markus>* And I started to wake up.

st *8:04 PM Markus>* And your mom started looking strange and scared.

st *8:04 PM Markus>* And Jun was actively crying now

st *8:05 PM Markus>* and don't know

st ### Monday, April 28

st *12:03 AM Markus>* Sorry

st *12:03 AM Markus>* And then I started talking about your mom and her attempts to cope and how she blamed you, and she lost her mind.

st *12:04 AM Markus>* It was like something snapped.

st *12:04 AM Markus>* That sounds cliche, but it's true. Like, she was gripping the table tight and all set to pounce, and whatever tension was in her muscles snapped violently and she threw the table.

st *12:05 AM Markus>* It sounds so ridiculous to say it now, hah

st *12:05 AM Markus>* It was scary as hell then, though. She threw the whole table to the side and then threw her coffee cup (empty) at my face and then hit Jun with her purse.

st *12:06 AM Markus>* And I thought she was done because everyone was shocked and staring at us.

st *12:06 AM Markus>* But then she started shrieking and ran to the book shelf we were sitting by and started throwing books at us.

st *12:06 AM Markus>* (paperbacks don't hurt that much, but hardcovers do)

st *12:06 AM Markus>* And Jun seemed to snap out of it too and jumped up to grab her.

st *12:07 AM Markus>* He grabbed her around the middle and sort of lifted her up and turned around so that he was between us.

st *12:07 AM Markus>* This is dumb, but it was sorta like when I'd pick you up when you were being a fuss and carry you off to bed, laughing.

st *12:07 AM Markus>* So I guess that runs in the family in a creepy sort of way.

st *12:07 AM Markus>* Anyway.

st *12:07 AM Markus>* Jun got her turned around and hauled her outside, hollering at us to call the ambulance on the way out.

st *12:08 AM Markus>* And the badger at the bar already had the police on the phone, so she added something about an ambulance.

st *12:08 AM Markus>* And then the police were there and the fire truck because they're the first responders.

st *12:08 AM Markus>* And they handcuffed your mom and put her in the back of the cruiser.

st *12:08 AM Markus>* And no one was hurt, so the fire truck left

st *12:08 AM Markus>* And the police came in and started taking reports as Jun and I and the badger started picking up the books and putting them back.

st *12:09 AM Markus>* And all the while your mom was alternating between sobbing and throwing a hissing fit in the back of the cop car.

st *12:09 AM Markus>* And then I gave my report, and then Jun did

st *12:10 AM Markus>* And I just kinda waved at him and left while he was giving his report.

st *12:10 AM Markus>* Because how awkward of a goodbye would that have been?

st *1:21 PM Markus>* I met with Dr. Maura today, and we talked about the weekend a lot.

st *1:21 PM Markus>* She says that she thinks I did the right thing, and that this is a turning point in our relationship

st *1:22 PM Markus>* our=me and your parents

st *1:22 PM Markus>* And she said that it's time to work on letting you go.

st *1:23 PM Markus>* She said that it's not because my relationship with you has changed, or if it has, it's gotten stronger. She says that it's important that I use the energy I've had when it came to your parents and your estate and put it to work on myself.

st *1:23 PM Markus>* And I told her how tired I was and she smiled and said that I felt better after giving the letter to your parents because that was the first bit of letting you go.

st *1:24 PM Markus>* And I think she's right.

st *1:24 PM Markus>* I think I'd been holding you close to keep you safe from what I perceived as danger.

st *1:24 PM Markus>* Rightfully so!

st *1:24 PM Markus>* But your mom was right in that I was keeping you from her, to some extent, and largely at your request.

st *1:24 PM Markus>* So I think I need to start working on that.

st *1:24 PM Markus>* I'll never forget you

st *1:25 PM Markus>* And I'll never stop loving you

st *1:25 PM Markus>* and i'll never stop missing you

st *1:25 PM Markus>* but she's right

st *1:35 PM Markus>* I need to start working on myself, too.

st ### Wednesday, May 1

st *9:38 PM Markus>* I gave it a break for a day and spent yesterday cleaning the apartment.

st *9:40 PM Markus>* Well, after work. I'm back there full time, and that's starting to feel normal again.

st *9:40 PM Markus>* But after, I tore down your desk and turned it into a bookshelf, best I could.

st *9:40 PM Markus>* Not sure how long that will last. I want to set up my gaming rig there, just to piss you off <3

st *9:44 PM Markus>* Anyway, I'm going to keep doing this less and less.

st *9:44 PM Markus>* This texting you.

st *9:44 PM Markus>* I already threw away your phone and wiped your laptop.

st *9:45 PM Markus>* So I don't have access to your account anymore, and it'll expire.

st *9:45 PM Markus>* (and yes, I did try 'crazy face', but you hadn't changed it, which is good, miss prissy whiskers.)

st *9:45 PM Markus>* So...

st *9:45 PM Markus>* I'll contact you in a week and see where things go from there.

st ### Tuesday, May 7

st *6:11 PM Markus>* I

st *6:11 PM Markus>* crap, tomorrow

st ### Wednesday, May 8

st *7:58 PM Markus>* I was going to text you yesterday because I got a call from Jun.

st *7:59 PM Markus>* Your mom was released that same weekend, of course, but she got charged and had to go do a trial or something and has community service and therapy.

st *7:59 PM Markus>* And Jun sounded like he'd perked up some, too.

st *8:00 PM Markus>* So we talked about you and sort of had the conversation that we were going to have without your mom.

st *8:00 PM Markus>* You know, memories and good stuff and rebuilding bridges.

st *8:01 PM Markus>* And he said that he'll probably be getting a divorce from your mom after the letter (I emailed it) and coming to realize just how much your mom was after him as well as you, keeping you in her service and using anxiety as a tool.

st *8:01 PM Markus>* So that was good.

st *8:02 PM Markus>* Or maybe not good, I imagine divorces suck.

st *8:18 PM Markus>* Anyway, it's been a week of caring for myself.

st *8:18 PM Markus>* I did move the gaming rig.

st *8:18 PM Markus>* Sorry not sorry.

st *8:19 PM Markus>* And I started putting the stuff that was yours but worth keeping into a few boxes, which are now in my closet, and the rest of your stuff is gone.

st *8:20 PM Markus>* Well, there's probably more, but it's gone.

st *8:20 PM Markus>* And hell, I miss you, Lee.

st *8:22 PM Markus>* Until next week <3

st ### Wednesday, May 15

st *5:07 PM Markus>* I met with Dr Maura again today.

st *5:07 PM Markus>* It was REALLY good.

st *5:07 PM Markus>* We were talking a lot about the stages of crisis and such.

st *5:07 PM Markus>* Which we've done before, of course.

st *5:08 PM Markus>* And my role in it all.

st *5:08 PM Markus>* How it's sometimes my choice to move between stages.

st *5:08 PM Markus>* Like, I can park myself in depression for a while.

st *5:09 PM Markus>* Or anger, or bargaining, or whatever.

st *5:09 PM Markus>* I could just stay there because it's easier to stay than moving on.

st *5:09 PM Markus>* Not that those stages aren't necessary!

st *5:10 PM Markus>* Just that it takes effort to leave them when you're ready.

st *5:10 PM Markus>* And I'm trying.

st *8:22 PM Markus>* We were pretty spot on in terms of music tastes, you know that?

st *8:22 PM Markus>* Going through your library.

st *8:22 PM Markus>* Sorry not sorry <3

st *8:28 PM Markus>* We could've made a rockin' band, you know?

st *8:28 PM Markus>* Miss Prissy Whiskers and the Crazy Faces.

st *8:28 PM Markus>* Though that sounds like an old punk band.

st *8:28 PM Markus>* And we seem to have done mostly prog.

st *8:28 PM Markus>* ...

st *8:29 PM Markus>* And neither of us played any instruments

st *8:29 PM Markus>* So maybe not a good band.

st ### Thursday, May 16

st *12:38 AM Markus>* i miss you

st *12:38 AM Markus>* i love you

st *8:22 AM Markus>* Sad night last night.

st *8:23 AM Markus>* Taking Maura's words to heart.

st *8:23 AM Markus>* Going to choose to go to work.

st *8:23 AM Markus>* Choose to get better.

st *8:23 AM Markus>* Holding off until tomorrow, if I can.

st *11:01 PM Markus>* This needs to stop.

st *11:12 AM Markus>* I think it's time.

st ### Friday, May 24

st *6:58 PM Markus>* I miss you, Lee.

st *6:58 PM Markus>* I always will, and I'll always love you.

st *6:58 PM Markus>* But you're gone.

st *6:59 PM Markus>* You're gone now, and I'm working to find a way to live with that.

st *6:59 PM Markus>* I've been slowly washing the apartment of your presence.

st *7:03 Markus>* Not that you'll be gone entirely, of course. I have your picture in a few places.

st *7:03 Markus>* But I got rid of all the stuff that was -yours-.

st *7:03 Markus>* and washed the bedding several times.

st *7:04 PM Markus>* To get rid of the smell of you.

st *7:06 PM Markus>* Christ, this is hard.

st *7:07 PM Markus>* Good, in the long run, I hope, but hard.

st *7:18 PM Markus>* I'm not done grieving or mourning.

st *7:18 PM Markus>* Not by a long shot.

st *7:18 PM Markus>* But I'm working on it. I'm working on finding a way to accept that you're gone.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* Not to forget you, but, tacky as it sounds, honor you.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* I'm working on getting to that stage.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* So.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* I'm going to start journaling.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* And delete your contact.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* Though I saved our messages.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* And write for myself, and not for you.

st *7:21 PM Markus>* With Dr. Maura's blessing.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* And, hopefully, yours.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* I love you.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* I miss you.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* I always will.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* But you're gone.

st *7:22 PM Markus>* And you're not at the store.

st *7:23 PM Markus>* Or at chemo, or still sick at the hospital.

st *7:23 PM Markus>* You're gone.

st *7:23 PM Markus>* And it's time for me to work on that.

st *7:24 PM Markus>* So goodbye, Lee.

st *7:24 PM Markus>* Sleep well, miss prissy whiskers.

st *7:24 PM Markus>* Crazy face, out.
