If RJ had been expecting to find some fresh clue, some exciting conclusion to eir adventure at the clinic, ey was disappointed. The office was an office. Cold, hollow, impersonal despite countless touches cleverly engineered to add personality.

If eh had expected perhaps some comfort from familiar surroundings, ey was also disappointed. Upon walking into the clinic, memories fell upon em like ticks from branches, latching on, leaching substance. Consult, surgery, treatments, training, training, training. Getting to know the doctor and his team. Getting to know the trainers. Learning to loathe them. Learning to love what they had to offer.

There was nothing there.

There were the couches in the lobby, of course. There was the desk where ey checked in, the receptionist's chair behind it. There was the hallway. There were the locked and unlocked doors --- ey now suspected that the locked doors hid rooms that ey had never seen, eir memory refusing to consider things that ey never remembered.

There was the dimly lit surgery suite.

There was the row of paired rigs. Instructor, student.

There was the whole affair laid out before em, and no solutions. No explanations.

Ey paced the halls. Sat on the lobby's couches. Sat at the rigs, dumb and silent. Lay on the operating table, face down as ey remembered. Ey rifled through notes.

Ey threw eir weight against a locked door, far more solid than it had any right to be, no rocking in the frame evident. It may as well have been a wall.
