st ### Tuesday, April 8

st *12:01 PM Markus>* Okay.

st *12:01 PM Markus>* So.

st *12:01 PM Markus>* Not only was that a mess, but it was apparently illegal.

st *12:03 PM Markus>* I slept and feel better, and now I'm giggling like an idiot over the fact that I did something meaningful to me, and it turned out I was breaking the law the whole time. You're not supposed to scatter ashes in water.

st *12:03 PM Markus>* (And even if it were legal, there's probably a better way to do it than what I did.)

st *12:04 PM Markus>* So there you have it. I thought I was going to snub your goofy wishes but your idiot husband wound up going along with them all the same.

st ### Wednesday, April 9

st *9:41 AM Markus>* Back at work today.

st *9:41 AM Markus>* Everyone was nice.

st *9:41 AM Markus>* Calm.

st *10:21 AM Markus>* And I do feel better, PS. I think I got more out of that than I can put into words.

st ### Thursday, April 10

st *4:54 PM Markus>* I miss you, sweetheart.

st *4:54 PM Markus>* I remember when you got diagnosed and we both had a good cry over it, but then it all turned out to be so boring after that.

st *4:55 PM Markus>* It was hard having that hang over us both, I know, but it all got routine

st *4:56 PM Markus>* Awful, but routine

st *4:56 PM Markus>* And then things got better.

st *4:56 PM Markus>* Until they didn't.

st *4:56 PM Markus>* Everything got so bad so quickly.

st *4:56 PM Markus>* Your mom didn't even come and see you.

st *4:56 PM Markus>* Oh well.

st *4:58 PM Markus>* Starting on the rest of your will and such tonight.

st *5:20 PM Markus>* Looks like you just left me anything.

st *5:20 PM Markus>* Which is good.

st *5:22 PM Markus>* When my sister died, everything was a mess, because she had two wills.

st *5:23 PM Markus>* Neither had been updated.

st *5:24 PM Markus>* Oh god, and her husband and my parents were a mess trying to figure things out with the house and title and stuff.

st *5:24 PM Markus>* Renting is making things easier.

st *5:24 PM Markus>* And your "everything to Markus" will.

st *5:24 PM Markus>* Your mom's pissed.

st ### Friday, April 11

st *6:43 PM Markus>* Okay, your mom's -really- pissed.

st *6:43 PM Markus>* She says that a lot of your stuff is rightfully hers.

st *6:44 PM Markus>* I've yet to find anything that could rightfully be called hers.

st *6:46 PM Markus>* She wants to go through your desk with me, and I don't know what to say to her. She says she's got books and papers that are hers in there, and I don't know what to do about that.

st *6:46 PM Markus>* I wish you were here to tell her off.

st *6:48 PM Markus>* She keeps sending me messages in all caps that are half about your stuff and half about how I'm the wrong species, and that you deserved a cat who would take care of her and give her grandkits. She says I'm garbage and disreputable and that I tarnished the reputation of your family.

st *6:48 PM Markus>* Which I don't get.

st *6:48 PM Markus>* You guys aren't famous

st *6:48 PM Markus>* *Forwarded message from Xiuying (Lee Mom)* GARBAGE YOUR GARBAGE I CANT BELIEVE YOUD KEEP ME FROM MY DAUGHTER

st *6:48 PM Markus>* *Forwarded message from Xiuying (Lee Mom)* You took our name and DRAGGED IT THROUGH MUD YOU TOOK LI AND DRAGGED HER THROUGH MUD GIVE ME WHATS MINE

st *6:49 PM Markus>* Though I guess I did drag you throuugh the mud.

st *6:49 PM Markus>* Har Har

st *6:50 PM Markus>* I don't know what she means about keeping you from her.

st *6:50 PM Markus>* I thought I knew what hatred felt like, but damn, Lee.

st *6:50 PM Markus>* How did so sane a cat come from so crazy a family?

st *6:52 PM Markus>* I was going to go through your clothes first, because those felt like they'd be easy, but I'm going to go through your desk instead.

st ### Sunday, April 13

st *9:03 AM Markus>* There is literally nothing in your desk of interest.

st *9:04 AM Markus>* I took all our bills and boxed up everything and gave it to your mom.

st *9:05 AM Markus>* Seriously. You had some notes printed out about research, two planners, and  12 blank books.

st *9:05 AM Markus>* I counted.

st *9:05 AM Markus>* I swear to god, Lee. I miss the hell out of you, but 12 blank books?

st *9:06 AM Markus>* I just kept your laptop.

st ### Monday, April 14

st *4:21 PM Markus>* Your mom's yelling at me again.

st *4:21 PM Markus>* She wants to go through my papers now, too. And my books?

st *4:22 PM Markus>* I love you and miss you so much. You were always so good at telling her to go away. She won't listen to me at all.

st ### Tuesday, April 15

st *3:53 PM Markus>* Your stepdad is meeting with me after work.

st *3:53 PM Markus>* We're meeting at a coffee shop, don't worry.

st *5:23 PM Markus>* WHAT THE HELL WHAT THE HELL

st *5:24 PM Markus>* Your stepdad was nice enough, we talked about memories of you. He said he knew about your feelings toward him, and that he wished he'd done better by you.

st *5:24 PM Markus>* But then I got home and YOUR MOM HAS BEEN IN OUR APARTMENT

st *5:25 PM Markus>* I guess I got home faster than they thought, but I think your stepdad was keeping me occupied while your mom BROKE INTO OUR PLACE

st *5:26 PM Markus>* I ran into her in front of the building and she started yelling and hollering at me, and I was so confused.

st *5:26 PM Markus>* She said I was hiding your stuff from her and that she would be calling her lawyer.

st *5:28 PM Markus>* AND THEN SHE HIT ME

st *5:28 PM Markus>* SHE SLAPPED ME

st *5:29 PM Markus>* I yelled that I was going to call the police when Jun screeched up in a car and she jumped in and drove off

st *5:29 PM Markus>* What the HELL

st *5:30 PM Markus>* I'm calling the cops to get her away from here

st *5:58 PM Markus>* They took a report and said to call again if she shows up, that way they can talk with her, and worst case, then I can get a restraining order.

st *5:59 PM Markus>* She trashed our bookshelf and dug through our closets.

st *6:00 PM Markus>* I don't think anything's missing. It's just a mess.

st *6:00 PM Markus>* The cop took a report, though.

st *6:00 PM Markus>* Don't know how she got a key.

st ### Wednesday, April 16

st *11:03 AM Markus>* Now she wants your laptop.

st *11:03 AM Markus>* I had it with me at coffee even.

st *11:04 AM Markus>* I don't have the password, though, no idea what she'd do with it.

st *11:32 AM Markus>* I think I may destroy it.

st ### Friday, April 18

st *11:03 PM Markus>* I miss you so much, Lee.

st *11:04 PM Markus>* I think it's really starting to hit me.

st *11:04 PM Markus>* You're gone.

st *11:04 PM Markus>* You're dead.

st *11:04 PM Markus>* You're never coming back.

st *11:05 PM Markus>* Your mom went quiet, and now I'm finally starting to digest this.

st *11:08 PM Markus>* I wish I could take your place.

st *11:08 PM Markus>* I wish I were dead.

st *11:08 PM Markus>* I wish I was gone.

st *11:11 PM Markus>* Oh god.

st *11:11 PM Markus>* I keep getting stcuk crying and

st *11:11 PM Markus>* its so hrad to keep going sometimes

st *11:11 PM Markus>* i want to die without yowue

st *11:12 PM Markus>* oh god

st *11:12 PM Markus>* lee

st *11:12 PM Markus>* oh god

st ### Saturday, April 19

st *12:44 AM Markus>* I miss you
