{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 By the time ey left eir flat, it was about four in the afternoon.  Ey had spent a few minutes getting their suit brushed out and clean as best as ey could before putting it on, along with eir nice pair of gloves.  Thankfully, the suit jacket as already spotless, and the dress shirt would go through the laundry without problems.  It had been a stressful thought, that they might have to get the thing professionally cleaned, and at great cost for same- or next-day service.\
On the way back to the tube station, ey stopped by a Thai counter and picked up a take-away container of phat si-io to eat on the short walk.  Ey managed to make it about halfway through the container before having to close it back up again and put it back in its bag with the chopsticks before getting tagging eir way into the station's depths.\
Throughout the ride from Benthal Green to Oxford Circus, RJ's mind was flooded with the information they had gained by prowling through Sasha and Debarre's deck.  Ey kept mulling over that incredibly large number of credits, just how much social currency was bound up within the 'fake' currency of the DDR credit system.  Cicero had built himself up into a political player.\
RJ arrived at the theater five minutes early or so, having spent the last few meters of eir walk hasitly finishing the carton of Thai so that ey could dump it into the trash bin just outside.  Once ey swiped eir way into the theater, ey jogged quickly to the loo to wash eir face and straighten eir hair, some of the small things that ey had sacrificed to dig into Cicero's case.\
"Sorry, Johansson, I'm here," ey offered to the hulking director.\
"You're here five minutes early, RJ," he laughed.  "What on earth are you sorry about?"\
"What?  I-  Oh,"  RJ pulled eir cell out to confirm the time.\
"Lot on your mind, kid?"\
"Nah, I'm fine.  I mean," RJ stammered, working to get emself in the work mindset.  "Yeah, sorry.  I woke up early and spent a bunch of time researching before work, I guess my head's still elsewhere, boss."\
"Hah, well, alright," Johansson rumbled.  "So long as you get your head around work, I guess that's okay.  Hey, here comes more crew."\
RJ bustled into the theater and made eir way down toward the pit where the mics had been stored.  Ey set a tech to work handing them out to the actors who would be wearing them, making sure the tech had his cheat-sheet to align proper mic number to actor.\
Ey bounded back up the steps two at a time toward the tech booth to set about waking the theater up again.  Caitlin was already in place, so it would be shaking its sleepy head already, ey just had to help it wake up the rest of the way.\
Shrugging out of eir jacket and draping it over the back of the sound booth chair, RJ exchanged cheery greetings with the lights lead as ey slipped eir hands carefully out of eir gloves, contacts all freshly polished and clean.\
The theater purred in recognition and brushed up against em as RJ settled into eir chair and delved in, eir hands rest lightly on the contacts in the cradles, forehead against the headrest.  Safety had always been a concern of the engineers, what with the lawyers breathing down their necks, and so all it would take to pull RJ back out would be for him (or someone else, for that matter) to lift eir hands from the contacts and move eir head away from the curved plastic headrest.  To that end, it was considered good form to find a comfortable position that allowed one to rest lightly against the contacts without gripping at the hand rests - the slight magnetic attraction between the contacts in eir fingers and the ones in the cradles would keep everything positioned nicely.\
The first half of the evening's rehearsal went by without much trouble at all.  Johansson had apparently highlighted a few areas of concern that he wanted to work through, and the cast has followed his lead, adjusting as needed at their dear leader's suggestions, while RJ and Caitlin kept a script running so that they could keep up with the director and Sarai, the manager.\
Finally, when the clock hit eight thirty, Johansson called for a break, and informed everyone that they would be running through the play top to bottom afterwards, before prepping for opening tomorrow.\
RJ backed out of the connection with the theater and reveled in the feeling of pulling eir fingers away from that slight magnetic grasp that the cradles offered, wiping eir hands dry and flexing fingers to keep limber.  Ey spent the break walking around the theater and stage in one big, looping arc, simply listening to the way that the ambient sound moved through the room and reflected off of walls and ceiling.  It would all be different with people in the seats, to be sure, but ey was used to that by now.\
It was around the end of the first act that RJ started having problems.  When one was delved in, one could always focus hard enough to feel the way their head felt against the head rest, or sense the way that their hands rested within the cradles of the grips.  By the time ey had brought down house sound in time for the curtain to fall, RJ could feel a numbness creeping over emself from the base of eir neck outwards, stretching out along eir scalp and down eir arms and torso.\
Initially, ey had been willing to chalk it up to nerves or exhaustion - it had been a long enough week, after all - but by the time ey couldn't feel the plastic of the headrest or the cradles beneath eir hands, ey began to worry.  All the same, it was final dress and ey would be able to head home and catch up on sleep or whatever ey needed before too long, so ey decided to simply power through it, ignoring the lack of sensation.\
By the second curtain, RJ knew something was desperately wrong.\
Ey hadn't missed any cues yet, but ey couldn't seem to figure out how to work eir 'voice', such as it was, to communicate with Caitlin, Sarai, or Johansson, leaving em feeling more and more cut off from the rest of the theater as time went on\
It was the muzzle that was the kicker, though.  The muzzle and the tail, which ey felt - any feeling was a beacon in the storm of numbness that had long since enveloped eir body - with a piercing intensity, bordering on and then diving straight into pain.  Ey tried to pull back and wound up lifting eir paws in a sudden jerking motion which, combined with the act of pulling eir head back from the contacts, led to them falling over.  There was no chair to catch em.\
And that was when ey missed eir cue.}