{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The play was a contemporary piece called The Short Trip.  According to the season, it chronicled an indecisive youth taking a small trip away from his family on false pretenses to visit a bunch of friends for three days.  The goal of the trip was to visit his long-distance partner, but in the setting of a party, with guests, both known and unknown, weaving their way through the scene over the three heady days.\
This much she had learned as she made her way southwest.  Carter had needed to duck out of work earlier than usual to make it over to the theater on time.  She had actually to travel past RJ in the UCH, riding along the yowling Victoria line, to get to Soho where the theater was.  Traffic at that time was was notorious for keeping the Tube cluttered and, at times, inaccessible.  She had needed to wait for three trains to pass before she found one with room.\
The train vomited her out into Oxford Circus and left her spinning, looking for the right exit to the tube station, each helpfully lit up with a thin, translucent display that overlaid the older signage in painted tile.  Both bore the unerring curves of Helvetica, perpetual winner of the font wars.\
It was easy enough to find the theater by following the crowds, and her identity - and thus her ticket - was proved by a taking her glove off and giving touch from her contacts, a grip around a simple bar in front of the theater.  Once she had done so, the bar flipped around to provide its other end to the next customer, the end she had touched getting a quick sanitization so that everyone touched a sanitary surface.  It was all rather like getting on the Tube, only much slower.\
Carter was surprised by just how much she enjoyed the play.  She had decided not to approach cast or crew beforehand.  This had initially worried her, as she suspected she would spend the entirety of the play thinking about what to say.  She wound up getting engrossed in the play, watching as the lead made his way through the party and met up with his partner.\
The cast did a magnificent job of portraying the awkwardness of meeting up for the first time.  She had had her own long-distance fling while an undergrad, and she knew that feeling well.  Her mother had even cautioned her to meet up at a public space where you know people, like a party, just in case.\
It was well into the third act of three that she realized she hadn't given attention to the sound of the play.  A passing thought informed her that this was probably a good thing, that this was the sign of a job well done.\
She applauded as heartily as the rest of her fellow audience members, clapping in that way that prevented any knocking of her contacts against each other.  All the same, her mission, such as it was, was not lost on her.  She was perhaps a little rude in her haste in making her way out into the lobby of the theater where some of the cast and the director were greeting the audience.  It was opening night, after all.\
"Mr. Johansson.  Mr. Johansson!"\
The bulky man turned toward her with a pleasant look despite the obvious worry lining his face.  "Ma'am.  I trust you enjoyed the show?"\
"I did.  Not bad at all!  I did want to ask you something, though, if I might."\
"Mm."  The sound was assent, but with the rest of the audience starting to stream out of the theater, she could tell his mind was elsewhere.\
"I was\'85It's just, about RJ-"\
That focused Johansson's attention in a way that startled Carter out of speech.\
"I-I mean, if it's not too forward to ask," she trailed off, leaving a hint of a question.\
"It is forward," he confirmed, eyes boring into her.  "But I'd like to know how you know of em?"\
"I'm a researcher at UCL, working on the Lost."\
Johansson took her elbow gently in his grip and led her off to the side, out of hearing of the rest of the audience, as well as the other curious cast.\
"That doesn't tell me how you know of em.  Aren't you\'85isn't that privileged information?"\
"The tabloids had a-"\
He growled and grit his teeth, "They told me I couldn't contact anyone but doctors, but said you guys had declined contact.  I saw that."\
Carter straightened and shook her head, "We did not, nor would we have.  Although, I must admit, the interview process would be far more formal with this.  I only put the pieces together based on location and pronouns."\
"So what do you want from us?"  Johansson's shoulders sagged, "We miss RJ.  It's been a real mess without em.  Please, Doctor-"\
"Ramirez.  Dr. Carter Ramirez."  She hesitated for a moment before continuing.  "We're looking for\'85well, a few of us are looking for social connections between the Lost, rather than just simple personality correlations.  What can you tell us about RJ in that sense?"\
Johansson looked up toward his cast, then leaned a little closer to murmur, "O'Niell's, once we're done, then we can talk.  I have more to do here, so it may be a while.  Please wait up, though."}