---
counts:
    characters_real: 9718
    characters_total: 11995
    file: ./posts/furry/lovesexfur/_posts/2013-08-17-lets-talk-about-sex.markdown
    paragraphs: 25
    type: jekyll
    words: 2187
layout: link
link: http://lovesexfur.com/2013/08/17/lets-talk-about-sex/
title: Let's Talk About Sex
---

I spend a lot of time burying myself in the fandom, reveling in the connections
we build and giving back in the best ways I can manage.  I'm not a good artist
(just trust me on this - it's best for *everyone* if I don't draw), and my music
career stalled after I graduated college: I've not yet found the means to
jump-start it.  When it comes to fiction, I'm afraid I have more ideas than I
have motivation.  It's not a good combo, really, as I wind up with (quite
literally) notebooks full of ideas with all of two stories to show for it.  I
have a doofy time-travel story that somehow managed to involve choir
music, *sigh*, and a short piece of erotic fiction that involves two foxes and
some milkshakes.

I'm not an excellent writer.  My prose is loose, and the fact that keeping it
that way is the only way I can manage to get anything done does not speak well
for improvement down the road.  I can pull a mean metonymy, I'm average at
alliteration, and if I squint for a while, I'm sure  I can squeeze out a
metaphor, but I have no formal training in writing beyond the minimum required
to graduate high school, and whatever it took to get my music degree.

What I do have going for me, however, is words.  I've got a lot of words.

So: lets sit down and have a little chat about sex.  Or - wait, cancel that.
 Let's have a grand discussion about it<!--more-->

In my delving within the fandom, I have wound up involved in a few projects, and
one of those is the delightful, rather fuzzy book club
[Bookmarfs!](http://bookmarfs.com).  The club is a very open affair, though
we've got regular participants in the form of myself, my partner Forneus, a most
excellent fox, Peri, TabbieWolf, and the inimitable Lunostophiles.  When we
somehow managed to boil this month's book down from a choice of &lt;book about
sex&gt;, &lt;book about heterosexuality&gt;, and &lt;essays on patriotism&gt;,
to &lt;book about sex&gt;, I was a little surprised, though hardly displeased.
 All three were quite good, and while I do hope we get to *Straight: The
Surprisingly Short History of Heterosexuality* and *The Partly Cloudy
Patriot* sometime in the future, Mary Roach's *Bonk: The Curious Coupling of
Science and Sex* has been a very interesting read, and there's one passage in
particular that I'd like to share:

> The media's ubiquitous coverage of sex and sex research - as well as the
> genesis and population explosion of TV, radio, and newspaper sex advisors - have
> chipped away at the taboos that kept couples from talking openly with each other
> about the sex they were having.  Bit by bit, sex research has unraveled the
> hows, whys, why-nots, and how-betters of arousal and orgasm.  The more the
> researchers and the sexperts and the reporters talked about sex, the easier it
> became for everyone else to.  As communication eases and knowledge grows,
> inhibitions dissolve and confidence takes root.

I think a lot about the ways in which we, as a culture, move forward.  JM and I
have both written about it over on \[adjective\]\[species\]; about the ways in
which both conformity and transgression, each in their place, help to advance
both individuals and society.  I think that the two writing platforms of
\[adjective\]\[species\] and LSF embody this nicely, when we get down to it.
 Sure, there's some mixing - there's quite a bit of transgression on \[a\]\[s\],
and there's bound to be a fair bit of conformity here on LSF!  Still, though,
our whole point is to move things forward, whether it's through reinforcing the
ideas that tacitly pervade the fandom, or by challenging the very ideas that
many hold dear.

The previous quote from *Bonk* comes from a section about the ways in which
Masters and Johnson changed viewpoints with their publication of *Homosexuality
in Perspective* in 1979. The book is admittedly not without its problems - the
second half of the book apparently could be read as a tract on curing
homosexuality, though I've not read it for myself.  The first half of the book,
though, was spent dissecting the differences in sexual interaction between
homosexual and heterosexual couples, whether they'd been together for years or
simply assigned to be together that night by the researchers.  Between
homosexual couples, Masters and Johnson noted, there was much more attention to
one's partner and much less attention to, to paraphrase Mary Roach, the author
of *Bonk*, goals.  Rather than focusing on the goal of orgasm, the sexual act
shifted on the act of providing pleasure.

As Roach admits in the quote, much has changed in the nearly 35 years since the
publication of *Homosexuality in Perspective*.  Never mind problems in the *HiP*
study, nor even social attitudes towards sexual orientation, the discussion
around sex itself, as the author insists, has shifted.  We are becoming more
open about sexuality (the reasons for which include, not least of which,
commercial opportunity), and by virtue of becoming more open in general, we are
becoming more open specifically within our relationships.  The taboos that dog
us through the ages don't stand in the way quite as often as they used to, and
are easily knocked down by more knowledge, more discussion, and being more open.

They're not gone completely, however, and that's why, [to paraphrase Vi
Hart](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4niz8TfY794), so long as we construct
barriers for ourselves, we always find ways to deconstruct them as well; and we
will always construct those barriers.

To that end, I'd like to announce the first of (hopefully) several guides
published and distributed freely within the furry fandom: [The Love ◦ Sex ◦
Fur Guide to Safer Sex](http://guides.lovesexfur.com/safer-sex).

JM and I have been discussing such a thing in various guises for quite a while
now, and I've spent the last month or so laying the groundwork for such a
project.  The idea is simple: to provide a short, accurate guide or guides for
distribution within our subculture to accomplish the simple goal of
disseminating more information.  This is the heart of Mary Roach's point in the
quote above, it's the fact that underpins the very existence of the
\[adjective\]\[species\] projects, and it's the one thing mentioned over and over
again whenever an idea such as this is mentioned.

Furry is nothing if not participatory, however, and so here's the twist: all of
the guides are open sourced.  Not will be, but already are, have been from day
one.  "Open Source" has almost certainly permeated most aspects of our culture
by now, but it's still worth clarifying.  Anyone with the will to do so is free
to make changes to the guides.  They are not, of course, open to vandalism -
changes must be approved before they are merged in with the master copy - but
they are open to everyone to not only suggest, but to be proactive and make
corrections, to add information, and to extend the base of knowledge. We'll get
to the how in a bit.  First, though, let's get into some goals and planning.

Rather than spend time listing what this is not, let me just explain a little
bit of where I'm coming from on this.  I'm not a very sexually active person,
despite my part in a site such as this.  Even between my partners and I, acts
that even I would consider sex are decidedly rare, to the point where I would be
comfortable with the label "gray-aseuxal" at the moment, in that sex sort of
falls into this weird gray area.  Labels and identity are always in flux, of
course, but I mention this primarily as a preface to the fact that despite that,
we make it a point to talk about sex a lot.  *A lot*. If we could be said to
have a favorite thing to talk about, it's probably sex.  It's in these
discussions that we've come across the most internal strife in values instilled
by parents, society, and even some parts of the furry fandom.  Sex, like many
topics shrouded in taboo, also carries a lot of negative weight for people, and
my primary interest is that of sex positivity.

Sex positivity is one of those topics almost certainly in need of its own
article (or several), but in short, the idea is that sex and the discussion
around it should never be a negative experience.  That was my tweet-length
description, but we asked on Twitter a while back, and got several additional
replies: "That each person has the right to express sexuality to their own
degree without being made to feel bad about it", and "it means accepting that a
complex area of human interaction exists and is full of nuance that requires
careful consideration", and "sex positive means treating sex in a mutually
joyous, consensual, fun, and funny manner.  It’s an expression of love, but not
the only one by far, nor is it the only physical one" were just a few of the
examples.

The primary goals of the first guide are:

* Accurate and up to date information on safer sex, and
* A safe and positive outlook on sex and sexuality.

Beyond that, we aim to make it as inclusive as possible, as well as pertinent
within the fandom.  It should be interesting, fun, and worthy of discussion,
just like the act itself.  And so with that, have at it!  Read, share, and
contribute!  It's all available [here](https://github.com/adjspecies/lsf-guides).

### How it works

The guides are hosted, all together, in one git repository on GitHub.  A git
repository is simply a folder of files that a program, called git, knows about.
 Git is a distributed revision control system: it knows how to track changes
made over time (the revision control system part), and it lets anyone work with
the entire project at once or even host copies of it (the distributed part).
 GitHub is a website that hosts these repositories in such a way that anyone can
contribute to them.  This means that you can grab a copy of the entire set of
guides (a process called forking), make the changes you want, save those changes
back up to GitHub (a process called pushing), and then ask us at LSF to consider
merging your changes in (a process called a pull request).   This is, by
necessity, a very brief overview, but GitHub not only has some excellent
documentation on the process at the [top of their help
page](https://help.github.com/), but also a [client for
windows](http://windows.github.com/) that helps make the process much, much
simpler.  If you need any additional help with git, please feel free to ask!
 You can contact me directly at
[makyo@adjectivespecies.com](mailto:makyo@adjectivespecies.com).

Once you have made a change and created a pull-request on GitHub, try to get
some input on the changes you'd like to make!  I'll do my best to review every
request that comes my way, but we'd like to have two positive reviews for each
pull request to be merged, unless it's something trivial such as fixing spelling
or markup.  At that point, the branch will be merged into the master branch, and
changes will go live soon thereafter on the site.  Additionally, once we get
print versions of the guides, those changes will be merged and made available
wherever the print versions will be distributed.  There's more information on
the whole process on the [repo page](https://github.com/adjspecies/lsf-guides)
on GitHub.

If you don't wish to contribute directly - whether you don't wish to have a
safer-sex guide in your list of contributions on GitHub, or you simply don't
want to bother with git - that's also fine!  If you have a change you'd like to
make, you can simply tell us about it (or send us a diff) by emailing the
address above.  I'll work to create a branch to represent your work under my own
account, and then offer it up for review, anonymously if you so choose.  If you
don't want to go as far as actually modifying the guide itself, you can also
[open an issue](https://github.com/adjspecies/lsf-guides/issues), which someone
else can then resolve.  The goal is to make it as easy as possible to manage
contributions, and we don't want to leave anyone out!   Additionally, you can
always help review upcoming changes
([here](https://github.com/adjspecies/lsf-guides/pull/1) is an example of a
proposing changes), which will be announced here and over Twitter.  You can do
that through email, as well.  Our primary needs for those are:

* Making sure the information is accurate (we use the CDC as our benchmark), 
* Making sure the information is relevant (the guide should be clear and concise,
and hopefully at least a little furry), and 
* Making sure the information is presented well (is it furry, does it look good,
etc).

There are other ways in which you can contribute, as well - not only will we be
having more guides coming up soon (the next planned is on relationships, along
with the \[a\]\[s\] guides for fursuiting and convention attendance), but we'll also
need a few pieces of art for each!  Finally, you can always help by spreading
the word and getting these guides out there.  After all (say it with me)...  

<p style="text-align: center;"><em>More information is better!</em></p>
