# RJ Brewster --- 2112

If RJ had been expecting to find some fresh clue, some exciting conclusion to eir adventure at the clinic, ey was disappointed. The office was an office. Cold, hollow, impersonal despite countless touches cleverly engineered to add personality.

If eh had expected perhaps some comfort from familiar surroundings, ey was also disappointed. Upon walking into the clinic, memories fell upon em like ticks from branches, latching on, leaching substance. Consult, surgery, treatments, training, training, training. Getting to know the doctor and his team. Getting to know the trainers. Learning to loathe them. Learning to love what they had to offer.

There was nothing there.

There were the couches in the lobby, of course. There was the desk where ey checked in, the receptionist's chair behind it. There was the hallway. There were the locked and unlocked doors --- ey now suspected that the locked doors hid rooms that ey had never seen, eir memory refusing to consider things that ey never remembered.

There was the dimly lit surgery suite.

There was the row of paired rigs. Instructor, student.

There was the whole affair laid out before em, and no solutions. No explanations.

Ey paced the halls. Sat on the lobby's couches. Sat at the rigs, dumb and silent. Lay on the operating table, face down as ey remembered. Ey rifled through notes.

Ey threw eir weight against a locked door, far more solid than it had any right to be, no rocking in the frame evident. It may as well have been a wall.

Tears stung at eir eyes. School, home, this place. Everything was dreamlike, waffling between mind-numbing and nightmarish. If, as ey was beginning to suspect, all of this was simply taking place in a combination of eir mind and eir implants, why would there be these tantalizing clues dangled in front of em? Why would eir mind think to invent a mode of transit that simply skipped em along in jagged, stomach-churning jumps?

The tears were flowing freely now, and ey hunched down against the unknown, unknowable door, crouching, then sitting with the skirt pooled around eir waist as the fur of eir cheeks was stained from the crying.

Nightmares. Dreams.

Ey needed something to anchor emself to. Ey needed something to hold onto that wasn't dependent on clues and tibdits of informationg that were...what? Stored in eir implants? In the core in eir exocortex, dumped when ey was pulled back?

Ey needed to make something in this pale semblance of a world.

Dreams and lucidity. What mattered a lucid dream if there was nothing to wake up from?

And yet was it not lucid? Did ey not have some semblance of control over this place? Ey had been trusting that it was some sort of locked down sim. One in which ey had no ACLs. Some sort of semi-scripted film from which ey could not deviate.

But if it was a dream, if it was all within eir head and implants, was it not completely eirs? Did ACLs matter in a dream?

The fog of war, the importance of the sound board, the very setting of eir school and eir home, all of these were from within em. The ancient strategy games ey had played growing up, the thing that had captured eir imagination in school. The places, charged with memory as they were, which ey still dreamed of, even with home in London. Were these limits of the technological system operating in tandem with eir nervous system? Or were they simply limitations of a panicked mind?

Both?

Neither?

A test, then: something within said limits to begin with. Ey knew eir home. Ey knew eir room. Ey knew the feeling of the comforter beneath em. Ey knew the feeling of sitting on that bed, reading, of staying up past eir bedtime.

Ey knew it.

Ey closed eir eyes on the dim hall of the clinic.

Ey dreamed it, dreamed of home.

Ey felt it, breathed in the rich scent of the memory of it.

Ey dreamed it.

Ey felt it.

Ey reached out and, in one paw, clutched.

Eir fist was full of blanket.
