The joy of finding emself sitting in eir own bed, ey supposed, should have been immediate and intense.

Instead, upon seeing eir room around em once more, AwDae closed eir eyes and shifted about until ey was able to draw the covers up over emself once more. The weight of the blanket atop them, the feeling of being surrounded, covered, supported by the mattress seemed to be more important than...what, relief?

Ey didn't feel despair, didn't feel hopelessness.

AwDae wasn't sure what the emotion ey felt was. It was a non-emotion. It was a sense of swelling, of being too full. Of having words and images and colors flooding through them and yet wholly out of reach.

When ey had awoken this morning, ey had supposed that ey would head down from home to the clinic and magically find some sort of success. Or, if not success, at least another clue. Another step along the way.

This wasn't a puzzle, though. This wasn't a set of steps that could be followed to some logical conclusion. There was no end to the road, because there was no road.

Dreams, after all, have no plot.

Ey curled beneath the comforter. Resting in the fetal position hidden beneath eir blankets in eir childhood bed, ey could not even pretend that ey was dreaming. Were ey asleep, this would be one of those confusing dreams of too much meaning. Not nightmare, not blessed peace. Just neurons firing at random, conjuring images up from dust, from nothing.

If history plaid out as it seemed to, there would be no waking. Ey was in a world of dream, er every thought mirrored back against the inner surface of eir cortices, cerebral and exo.

The data ey had recieved on the note, still nestled snugly within eir pack, was not some hidden clue. It never had been. It had been an artifact of a dreaming mind leveraging the data that had been stored in eir cortex. Some part of em, already in the mindset of searching through data the afternoon before the rehearsal, was primed to dream of clues, of mysteries to solve.

Find this note.

Find this mic.

Find this solution and perhaps you will achieve your goal.

But what goal was that? Was it to become unlost, to be found? Was it to solve the riddle of Cicero's loss?

Or was it to become unstuck? Was it to find some accomplishment in life? Some way to move on? Move forward? Move, period?

*"You seem kind of frozen, kind of stuck, in a few ways."*

The laugh that came to them was choked, more sob than chuckle.

"Well, hard to get more stuck than this."

Ey slept, then. Not the restless, confusing sleep of the night before, but a dreamless sleep of an hour. The sleep of a mind requesting that blessed nothingness.

It wasn't a long nap, of course. Or perhaps it was. Perhaps ey could will it to be as long as ey wanted. Perhaps ey were bound to a rhythm, but could bend time.

Either way, when ey awoke, the corners of eir eyes gunked up with dried tears, the funk of the morning had largely passed. The numbness still lingered around the edges, to be sure, but it was not so all-consuming.

(Starts exploring limits of power)

("Visits" Priscilla, doesn't go well, crushed)
