# Ioan Bălan --- 2346

"I never wanted this. I never wanted any of this!" the skunk shouted, stamping her foot and jabbing her finger toward em. "You talk about how much I mean to you, how much this place means, and then what? Nothing ever comes of it."

"What the hell *is* supposed to come of it?" Ey stood quickly enough to knock the chair back onto the ground, all but lunging toward her. She stood half a head shorter than em, but, having decided that this wasn't menacing enough, ey forked two times in quick succession, three of em stomping toward her.

Rather than quail under the onslaught or simply run away, she stood up straighter, arms crossed. "Really? Are you really sure that you need this to make your point?"

Ey --- all three of em --- faltered in eir advance as the skunk continued.

"I never, *ever* should have stayed around here," she said, voice suddenly frigid. "And I certainly never should have stayed with an asshole like you."

With the slam of the door still ringing in the air, eir two forks quit as ey stumbled back to the chair, slowly righted it, sat down heavily, and buried eir face in eir hands.

Ioan made sure to stay still even as the lights came down and the applause began, holding eir position all the way until the noise of the audience was muffled by the curtain. Ey finally sat back in the chair, stretching eir arms up and taking a few long breaths. 

A pair of soft, fur-covered arms draping over eir shoulders and an equally soft-furred cheek pressing against eir own brought em out of eir reverie, if reverie it was. Ey tilted eir head against her cheek and held her arms to eir front.

"Hey asshole," the skunk said, echoing the epithet from a minute before.

"Hi May." Ey grinned, tilting eir head enough to get at least a sidelong glance at her. "Well done on that 'ever'. Thought you were going to punch me in the stomach or something."

She nipped at eir shoulder, letting em feel sharp teeth even through the thick fabric of the costume, before standing up. "That would be out of character, dear. Both for my character and I. Might be kinda fun sometime, though."

After Ioan stood, they made their way backstage, letting the hands --- several of whom were also them --- deal with the scene change. Backstage, then back behind even that to their dressing room, where they were each able to get straightened up in front of the floor-to-ceiling mirror.

As ey always did when coming face to face with emself in costume, the feeling of being someone else all but disappeared, and ey marveled at the fact that ey'd even let May talk em into this however many years ago. If there was one thing that ey was, it was a historian, right? It was a writer. An investigative journalist. Ey was in no way a stage actor, right?

But the Ioan that stared back at em, one skinny almost to the point of gaunt, one with sallow skin and sunken eyes, was proof of the opposite. It had taken em at least a year to really, truly master the art of forking over and over to carefully modify one's appearance. It felt counter to so many instincts, and even still, ey left a Ioan back home, unchanged from the view of emself that felt most at home, just to ensure that there remained some tie to that. May had chided em for this, but ey couldn't let go entirely.

"I do not know why you decided to write a scene where I have to yell at you," May said, bumping her shoulder against eirs. "Love the story, hate the scene."

"Hey, we've had our arguments."

"Well, yes, but I do not like those, either, so that is not a point in its favor." She grinned, poked em in the side with a dull claw. "And never during any of them have I yelled at you or called you an asshole."

Ey laughed and reached up to tug at one of her ears. "Well now's your--"

The longer ey held still like that, the deeper May's frown grew, the more her tail twitched this way and that in agitation. Still, she let the silence be and didn't touch em, unwilling to interrupt what must be a rather long sensorium message.

Finally, ey sagged, rubbing eir hands against eir face. "Uh, sorry. Can you send a fork back home? I'm going to have to try and push that out of mind for the time being, and I don't want both of us to be in that state."

The skunk nodded and forked off a new May, who quickly stepped from the sim. The remaining instance sighed and slipped her arms around eir middle. "You cannot leave me totally in the dark, my dear, or I will be distracted for worrying about something I do not know. Can you at least tell me something so that I don't lose my fucking mind?"

Ioan grinned and returned the hug, resting eir chin atop her head. "Dreamer Module," ey mumbled. "That enough for you?"

Back at the house, the root instance of Ioan was walking circles around the dining room table, 'pacing holes in the rug' as May would say.

Did say, it turned out, when she first entered.

"Sorry, May." Ey pulled out a chair at the table and sat, but did so very carefully, deliberately trying to avoid simply wanting to get up and pace all the more. "News from Castor."

At that, her ears perked and she pulled out the chair beside em. "Alright, spill it."

"Someone picked up the signal from the Dreamer Module. They say they understand the bit about how to use the Ansible and an astronomer --- Tycho Brahe, who Codrin said ey interviewed --- gave them permission to without thinking."

The skunk frowned, sitting up straighter in her chair. "So they are going to upload to Castor?"

"It sounded like they were forty days out from their closest approach. Codrin didn't know when exactly the upload window was." Ey frowned as ey picked apart the remaining bits of message. "Apparently they've named the remote ship Artemis and the aliens Artemisians. That's about all I know about it, other than Tycho said 'yes' and Codrin will be working with him on it."

"I am assuming more will be coming soon, knowing you and Codrin." She doodled on the surface of the table with a blunt claw. "I am also assuming that other Odists are not far behind in meddling. How long ago did this happen?"

Ioan squinted, then shrugged and just brushed eir hand along the table, a sheet of paper unrolling from nothing with the message itself written on it. Ey handed this to May, who read carefully.

"So, sevenish days ago. Nothing we can do but wait for further messages. Anything we send back will be two weeks too late." She hesitated, set the paper down, and looked at em searchingly. "What do you make of the second half, though?"

"I'm still trying to process that."

"Do you not feel the same?" She reached out a paw to take one of eir hands in her own. "You got into theatre after all, did you not? You are not doing much in the way of history, these days, other than the occasional paper. Did you really feel as though you had been sucked into all those projects with no input?"

Ey let her lace her fingers with ears as ey thought. Words were a long time coming. "A little, I suppose, but this bit about feeling a lack of agency is new to me. I don't know that I ever felt that strongly about being dragged along or anything."

"Perhaps it is Dear."

"How do you mean?"

She squeezed eir fingers between her own. "I think Codrin and Dear settled into a life of their own, but you know Dear. It is intensely focused on these big dramatic gestures. And before you say it, I am focused on drama, but rarely are my actions in life dramatic. I am happy with the life we have built. I am happy living with you and loving you and pushing you into writing increasingly weird plays."

Ey laughed, lifting her paw to kiss at her knuckles. "Well, sure. You got me to settle down, I guess. I don't think Dear is capable of settling down."

"I hope you do not resent me for that," she said, tapping at eir chin with a finger. "I do not get the impression that you are unhappy, my dear, but I occasionally worry that your life now is not entirely the one that you wished to build."

"I have no idea. I don't think I had any real plans for building a life." Ey sighed. "Which I guess is kind of where ey's coming from. Without direction, any influence feels like getting yanked around. I felt yanked around by True Name shoving you into my life, though I love you dearly now that you're here."

May beamed at this, and ey was reminded of eir promise to emself to say that more often. 

"Do you think ey is able to take greater control of eir life?" she asked. "You still occasionally get stuck, but I was surprised when you were the one who asked me how to write a script."

"Well, only because you wouldn't shut up about how bad the one you had was." Ey rolled eir eyes. "Skunks are so annoying. Ow!"

"If you call me annoying again, I will pinch you again. A third time will earn you a bite." She grinned toothily. "All the same. I am glad that you are happy. I do wish we were closer to Castor, though, so that you and Codrin could have an actual conversation about this. You may not be able to respond much about the Artemisians, but perhaps you could explain some of your thoughts on agency."

Ey nodded. "I'll do that, yeah. Any suggestions?"

"Perhaps ey could do a grand gesture and surprise Dear. I have loved it every time that you have surprised me. I do not think that Codrin has learned how to do that yet."

"I'm not sure I know how to teach someone how to do grand gestures."

She tugged at eir fingers. "You have become a playwright and performer, my dear, do not sell yourself short. Besides, to hear Dear tell it, ey is not incapable. The name thing, the surprise dinner, the forking stuff. Ey is just shy, perhaps."

"It's a Bălan thing," ey said.

"And it is our job as Odists to fuck with you until you break out of it. I have faith in em, just as I had faith in you." She slid the paper back across the table to em. "You just need to pass that on."

Ioan knew that it would be quite a while yet before eir and May's forks merged back down. Time Is A Finger Pointing At Itself, the director of the play was quite strict but she also drank like a fish and clung jealously to some remnant of productions she'd remembered from more than two centuries ago, so it had become a comfortable rhythm for Ioan, May, and any other actors who wished to join to follow her to a pub that served strong drinks and greasy food.

Ey had been planning on a simple dinner on eir own, perhaps catching up on some reading, but with this news and the fact that May was now here with em, the plan evolved into something more involved. Staying inside didn't feel right. Something about the news had em in mind of stars, in mind of looking up to the sky, so they wound up grilling burgers out on the patio and talked as they watched the stars above, sitting there in the house's back yard.

The burgers had long been finished and the grill long since put away when Ioan felt an automated sensorium ping of someone entering the house, followed shortly by a real message from who had arrived.

She did not give em time to react, nor even to stand. Ey had only managed to turn to look to the door opening out to the patio before the skunk stepped out onto the concrete, lit only by the string of lights tucked beneath the overhanging deck.

"I...what? True Name?"

She bowed quickly before holding her paws up in a disarming gesture. "Ioan, May Then My Name. I apologize for the brusque entry, but I believe we need to talk."

"I will leave you to it," May growled, pushing herself to her feet. Ey had only ever seen eir partner furious on a scant handful of occasions, but now ey could add one more to the list. Her teeth were bared, tail bristled out, and paws bunched up into fists. In the two decades since the research and publication of *On the Origin of Our World*, May's view of her down-tree instances had dropped precipitously, and all but one of those moments of fury had been triggered by her clade.

"May Then My Name, please," True Name said, clasping her paws before her and bowing once again. She sounded contrite, small. "I know that you do not hold me in high regard, but all the same, I would prefer if you stayed, as I am assuming that you have both received the news."

May frowned, crossed her arms, but did not move to leave.

"Thank you," the other skunk said, straightening up and brushing her paws down her blouse, a nervous gesture ey had never seen on one who always looked so in control. "I will not take up too much of your time, as there is much to be done and even though there are several of me already at work and this is my only task, my mind is still torn in many directions. May we please step inside where there is more light?"

Ioan looked up to May, who shrugged. She still looked as though she would like to either quit or bounce True Name from the sim entirely.

"We can talk at the dining table," ey said, climbing to eir feet.

Once they were seated, True Name stared off into space for a moment, and Ioan imagined her rifling through several exocortices at once, digging out a collection of files and memories.

"Alright," she said, shaking her head to focus. "First of all, may I see the message that you have received from Codrin#Castor?"

"There was some content that was clade eyes only, but I'll share the first half with you."

"And there is nothing in the second half that pertains to Artemis?"

Ey shook eir head, drawing the first half of the message out from the tabletop as a bit of foolscap which ey handed over. "Codrin had questions on a career change. Nothing pertinent."

The skunk skimmed the message rapidly while Ioan and May looked on. Eir partner still held fury in her eyes. Ey only felt tired.

"Alright, this is much the same information that we received earlier today." True Name folded the slip of paper and slid it into a pocket in her slacks. "I am sure that you can guess why I have arrived in such a rush, but to be clear, True Name#Castor learned that Codrin had sent you this update. Ey was perfectly welcome to, but, well, it is our job to consider information security and hygiene, so she sent us an additional message immediately upon learning of this."

"And you are here to shut us up," May said.

True Name lowered her gaze. "I am here only to provide suggestions as to that same security and hygiene."

Ioan marveled at the sight of the skunk. She had always seemed so proud and in control, and now she looked to be on the verge of tears. She looked scared.

"Okay, I'll listen," ey said. "But didn't you and Jonas plan for this? Run simulations?"

"We did, yes. We even ran the fact that it might be you who received the information through our models," she said, nodding to em.

"But you did not count on me," May said.

There was a tight silence that lingered a long few seconds before True Name nodded. "We did not count on you. We did not count on *both* of you. We did not count on..." She took a shaky breath, recomposed herself, and continued. "We did not count on what changes the dynamic between you two would lead to."

"Your models included a historian, you mean," Ioan said. "And now you also have one of your own. You've got two actors, one of whom is built specifically to influence others."

She looked stricken, gaze jumping between em and May. "When one has lived so long with a certain set of expectations, having them subverted is a shock. May Then My Name, I do not begrudge you your feelings toward me. It is not my goal to win you back; all I can do is admit my shortcomings and try to do better by you, even if that is, as you have requested, leaving you be. I truly am happy for you --- for both of you --- as you have accomplished something that I never could, that Michelle struggled with from the beginning. However, I have a job. I have goals to work towards. I have a vision that I would like above all things to uphold."

"You have painted yourself into a corner," May said. Her voice had lost the edge of fury at her down-tree instance's admission.

True Name giggled. It was a startling sound coming from her. Ioan had seen her laugh, grin, and smile, but they were all tightly controlled. They were all laser-focused cues to guide her interlocutor. The giggle held amusement, yes, but also nervousness. It seemed to be covering a much larger, less grounded emotional outburst. Ey had been considering just how much of this interaction up until this point was a carefully constructed act, how much of her visit could be dismissed with a wink and a grin, but there was something far to real about that giggle.

Ioan and May looked to each other and laughed as well.

"I'm sorry, True Name," ey said. "I mean this in all compassion, but you sound like you're about to lose it."

The skunk giggled again, sounding even less grounded, then rested her elbows on the table and buried her face in her paws, grinding the heels of her pads against her eyes before straightening the longer fur atop her head. "I am, yes, at least in a way. There are many threads happening at once and, as May Then My Name put it, I have painted myself into a corner with this one."

"Make your pitch, then," May said, voice softer still.

"It is a small ask, I hope," The skunk said, folding her hands on the tabletop once more. "Do not publish any of this information in the feeds or in some new book, and do not put it anywhere in the perisystem architecture. Not yet. I ask that you keep it between yourselves, Jonas, me, and other Odists. You may, of course, keep communicating with Castor, but I would ask that you not pass this on to Pollux yet. Codrin and True Name are working together, per the message I received, so I imagine our messages will contain similar content, but should anything interesting come up, I would be much obliged if you shared with me. Are you open to that?"

"Sure," Ioan said.

May shrugged. "Sure. I may talk to A Finger Pointing and End Waking about it, but I think you will have the rest of the clade under control before I wind up speaking to them again. The only other that I would like to share this with is Douglas."

The skunk stiffened in her seat and sat silent for a moment. "May I be there when you do? I would like to impress upon him the gravity of the situation."

"Absolutely not."

True Name winced, wilted, nodded. "I see. Well, if you would pass on my request for information security, I would be very thankful."

"I will," May said.

Standing and once more brushing her blouse flat, True name bowed. "Thank you both."

May stood as well and stepped around the table, taking the other skunk's paws in her own. It was strange to see the gesture of affection after so tense a discussion, but the expression on May's face as she looked at her down-tree instance showed none of the friendship implied. Ioan marveled. If the sight of two skunks that shared so much in common and yet differed in such key ways was uncanny, seeing them touch in such a way after so much history bordered on distressing.

"You wrote to me in back in 197. You pointed me toward Ioan and you told me, "You are, in many ways, a better version of me, and the completeness that you bring to our stanza ensures that we add up to something that is greater than the sum of its parts". You told me that you still love me in your own way. Do you remember that?"

The skunk canted her ears back and nodded.

May let go of her paws and then hugged her arms up around her cocladist's shoulders. "I still believe that."

True Name leaned into the hug. Ey couldn't see her face from where ey sat, but ey could still hear the sharp intake of breath and see the shaking of her shoulders.

After a moment, May leaned back, rested her paws on True Name's shoulders, and said, "But do not ever, *ever,* come to my house again."
