---
counts:
    characters_real: 8019
    characters_total: 9852
    file: ./posts/gender/poly-transcribe.markdown
    paragraphs: 26
    type: jekyll
    words: 1834
layout: page
title: Transcription of Floe's Poly Comic
---

*This is a transcription of Floe's delightful comic/blog about polyamory. The
original is available
[here](http://floedoodles.tumblr.com/post/63795191135/this-should-be-in-correct-order-a-thing-about)*

Today is National Coming Out Day! I wanted to make a post about something really
important to me: the topic of Polyamory.

(Image: Floe in a poly shirt with "Polyamory" rainbowing over them)

A lot of my close friends and people in the furry fandom know I'm polyamorous.
It's a facet of my life I came to terms with a little under a year ago, with the
support and understanding of my partner, K, and our our mutual friends.  It's a
hard part of oneself to learn to love: our culture does not groom the notion of
having feelings for more than one person.  There's the concept of the soulmate,
the one and only, the person you meet and settle into life with.  And that's
fine!  But it's always kind of alienated me.  Monogamy is great for those it's
good for, but not for people like me!

(Image: Floe gesturing, saying "That's great and all...but it's _boring_.")

For a bit of history.  I've been dating serially for quite a while.  Romance and
intimate friendships is an important part of my life and always has been: this
is nothing new.  I tried to fit myself into the box of monogamy, but found
myself distancing myself and breaking up with my partners after several months,
at no fault of them.  It appeared that I was afraid of commitment and deep
feelings: on the contrary.  I took my relationships very seriously and there has
been a  lot of love over the years for the people I felt for.

(Image: Speech bubble from off-screen: "You keep texting this other guy, are you
into him?"; teary-eyed Floe saying "Baby, of course not!", thought bubble
beneath that: "but I _am_...")

But somewhere along the line, over and over again, I'd develop feelings for
Someone Else.  It's true: I have, at great guilt to me now, broken off
relationships to pursue relationships with other people.  It was what I assumed
to be the only correct thing to do.  "I guess I didn't love this person."  I've
cheated on people.  I've lied.  And I am not okay with it.  But in retrospect,
the times I had with my partners were not a big lie.  Every time I broke it off
with my partner, I'd go through a deep depression and sense of loss, as though
they were the ones who'd broken up with me.  Which lead me to believe that I
still loved them.  But how could this be?  I had feelings for Person B.  How
could I still love Person A, and have feelings for Person B?

Easily.

After K and I started dating and I started to feel safe in our relationship, we
had some very candid conversations about where I stood emotionally and what I
wanted.  Frankly, at the beginning of our relationship, I did not want something
serious or long-term: climbing out of the ashes of a toxic and emotionally
abusive relationship, the last thing I wanted was to tie myself to someone who
was going to hurt me.  He's the type of person who is extremely open to new
ideas and dynamics: although we were in a new relationship, he's a scientist at
heart, and he was more than willing to sacrifice a bit of initial societal
discomfort to see if something worked for us.  I was open and entirely honest
with him about what I'd done, who I'd been, and what I thought I needed.  And we
came to terms with the idea of being polygamous.

(Image: K comforting Floe as they talk, Floe saying: "I...I understand if this
is too much...but we gotta talk."; K saying: "It's ok..." with a little heart)

Although at the time I did not have any other people I was dating it was on the
table for both of us. We tested the waters a lot with friends, I moved past the
boulder of, "Holy crap, my partner sees me on twitter flirting with my friends.
And he's not angry at me or feeling jealous."  We'd privately gush over who we
thought was cute.  We latched onto a very cute word: "Frubbles".  The feeling of
bubbly compersion you feel when you see your partner having a good time
romantically with another person. I had a bit of a close, intimate interplay
with a few different people, but nothing stuck.

(Image: K, smiling, asking, "You have a crush on W, don't you~"; Floe,
flustered, saying, "Sh-shut _up_." with a little heart)

The reason it works so well for us, I've discovered, is because of true and
candid honesty.  It's really hard to open up to each other, especially when you
talk about scary things.  It's easy to hear something you don't like and react
ferally and instinctually.  It's easy to start to cry, to start to feel ugly or
bad or gross or not good enough or like your partner is going to abandon you.
It's *very* very easy.  But it is possible to be patient with each other, set
aside some real time to talk about the feelings you're having and come up with a
compromise.  They always say trust is the most important part of a relationship,
and I couldn't agree more.

(Image: K leaning against a taller person, P, with a little heart; Floe in the
background giving a giant thumbs up, saying "Yes! (heart) Boys!")

Now, K is seeing a boy, Pal.  K met Pal through my friends, and he's fantastic.
It's important for both of us, because not too long ago, K came out as bisexual,
and up until that point, shortly before he met me, he's let a series of
heteronormative, monogamous, straight relationships, and hasn't had much time
for exploration with other boys.  Should this get in the way of our
relationship? We don't think so, and that's why polyamory is important in this
situation.  There is still room for communication, but all three of us are
respectful about each other and care for each other.

On my end, I have been close to a very important friend, W, for several months
now.  We don't have a label for our relationship like K and Pal do: they
actively call themselves boyfriends, and have a pretty conventional
relationship.  W and I have something different, but nothing I'd give up or make
light of: a kind of very close, very emotionally potent friendlationship, if
you'll pardon the silly term.  Although we don't have a label and things move
slow between us, it's still important for me to approach it with honesty, and be
clear with myself and K that I have romantic feelings for him.

(Image: Floe hugging a taller person in a black cap labeled W.  W saying:
"Weirdo"; Floe saying: "Stinky.")

Being poly is helpful here, too, because W and I, although we love each other
very much, don't apply ourselves to a lot of the stereotypical
boyfriend-girlfriend expectations.  It would be a lie to say we're "just friends
and nothing more", but I have needs as an individual to have a person in my life
who can fill that role.  I love him just as much as I'd love someone I'd call a
"boyfriend", but our dynamic doesn't presently have that label.  I know that, as
a monogamous couple, W and I would never work: his needs in life are different
than mine, and that's perfectly fine.  That's kind of where polyamory is so
important: it allows for people to be close without the toxic expectation for
one single person to be your "everything".

Where Pal and I, as K's two partners, are good friends, W and K hardly speak.
Pal, K and I, when Pal visited us a few months ago, switched off holding hands
and cuddling, watching movies, to foster a sense of familial closeness and
mutual trust. Although I'm coming to terms with my own feelings, seeing my
partner with someone else romantically is something entirely new to me.  Pal and
K have been infinitely kind to me in this respect, and I know that sometimes I
need to be very  much in the loop to soothe anxieties that arise.  And that's
okay: that's compromise.

(Image: Floe looking nervous.  "Feelings are hard and jealousy still happens.")

The reason I'm going into such detail is because this is an important and highly
misunderstood part of polyamory: the concept of dynamics between partners.  The
most questions I ever see from monogamous people in regards to polyamory is the
dynamics between everybody in a polycule (a cute term for a group of people who
are all interconnected through various partners).  There is a misunderstanding
that, for polyamory to work, everybody has to be best friends and cuddly and
close and even sexually active together.  This is not true at all, though it is
a completely valid kind of polyamorous dynamic.  I had a conversation with a
triad of friends who have been dating for five years now, legitimately as a
unit. This is not the kind of dynamic I am a part of, but it is a valid and
entirely real relationship.  Another polycule I'm close to, I'll refer to as the
Fox Family, can be more adequately explained by a diagram:

(Image: four cartoonish animal heads in a rectangle. From top to bottom, left to
right: a fox, a dog, a cat, and another cat. Arrows connect the fox to the dog,
the fox to one of the cats, and the two cats.  There is a dashed line, crossed
out, connecting the dog and the other cat saying "not involved".  Other arrows
have little hearts)

Everyone's relationship is different.  By each connection we have with our
partners, there presents a whole other level or dynamic of your relationship.
This can become quite challenging when you are dating someone while you are also
in a committed relationship, and while your partner is also in another committed
relationship.  *Should* everyone be talking actively, 100% of the time, often
and at length?  Not necessarily, as evidenced by W and K's distant but
respectful friendship.  But it's important to have the ability to.  The trust
must be present, and if there are feelings of animosity, discomfort, or sadness,
it's vital that they be addressed to everyone involved.

I suppose this whole entry could be boiled down to the basic, age-old premise of
"communication and trust is vital in a relationship", and that's very true.
Which just goes to show that polyamory is really not that much different from
conventional relationships with people who have, say, very close friends.  IT
would not be off-mark to say that in some relationships, we feel jealousy and
inadequacy when our partners have more fun with their friends than us. It's
entirely the same!

I hope this entry answered any questions. I'm more than willing to take any
notes or questions and answer them publicly.  If you want me to answer you
anonymously, just say so!
