{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 RJ allowed emself to sleep in until nearing eleven that morning, given that tonight was the last night of dress rehearsals.  Many other members of the troupe held part time jobs during the day, and ey had been known to offer their services as consultant during times like these.  Even so, with all that ey did, ey made enough to not have to worry about holding down more than the one job\
As it was, on days when they had nighttime rehearsals, ey felt no compunctions about sleeping in.  There was nothing to be up for, and with only the 'net to keep them occupied in the mornings, ey felt little need to get moving.\
It was Priscilla who has woken em up, butting her head against their cheek and purring loudly to them.  The more insistent the cat got, the less ey was able to ignore her intrusions on their admittedly banal dreams.\
Ey finally trudged out of bed and refilled their cat's water and food dishes, giving her the requisite morning pets to keep her happy.  That done, ey scooped her litter box and made emself a pot of tea.  Ey sat at the tiny kitchen table, sipping from their oversized mug and watching the late morning traffic from their window, primarily composed of business traffic, with the occasional mother with child in tow.\
By the time ey had finished eir first mug of tea, RJ had woken up a little more and had started to putter around.  As with the night before, he made sure that everything was in order before touching eir workstation.  Ey'd taken care of the cat, but ey still needed to eat, emself, so, remembering eir promise, ey set about making a small pot of rice.  The fifteen minutes that it would take to cook would give em enough time to finish another mug of tea.\
With most of the rice setting in the pot and small bowl of rice and leftover curry on eir lap, RJ ate slowly and thoughtfully.  In the process of swiping eir hand over the controls of the stove, ey was reminded of the deck that Sasha had shared with em last night.  There was no reason to think that some random person in London would have too much to offer in the case of another person ey had never met getting Lost, but there was no reason not to try and figure things out.  Maybe there was something, some small insight that ey had that, when pooled with those of others, which would help in some way.\
Pouring the third and last cup of tea into the thick-walled mug, ey set the empty bowl into the sink and made eir way over to the workstation.  As before, ey keyed in the password and rested eir hand onto the cradle for the two-factor.  Instead of delving in as ey had last night, though, ey flipped up the monitor and pulled the keyboard closer, moving the hand rests to the side and the headrest up and out of the way.  For work like this, there was no need to go immersive.  Ey could just as easily work as a fox, of course, but it was so easy to lose track of time in there, and the night's rehearsal hadn't been forgotten.\
"Let's see," ey murmured, taking a quick sip of tea before setting the mug down and calling up the deck that Sasha had given em.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc

\fs24 \cf0 Cicero Lost Nov 2108\
Priv eyes only\
See Debarre for ACLs\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 Dr. Carter Ramirez\
specialist in lost\
so. London\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 Mr/Mrs. Jackson\
parents, can't get much more\
dad in govt, mother stays home\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 And on it went, for nearly a dozen cards.  Each had its own cover embossed with a few lines of type, and each contained upwards of a gig of information, culled from various sources and of various quality.  RJ flipped through each, gaining what he could from a quick scan through of the data, before collapsing the deck once more and sitting back to think.\
Even though ey had only received the deck the night previously, there was nothing in there that seemed new or out of place.  Ey had heard of the Lost before, and the name Ramirez was commonly tied with the hundred or so cases that had cropped up over the years.  The family\'85no, there was nothing to be gained there, at least not that had already been tried by Debarre; again with the problem of being a random person in the UK, rather than someone known or with power.  None of the rest of the cards carried any real significance to RJ.\
If there was anything RJ was going to add to the conversation over Cicero, it would be through eir connection to the cat.  Something ey knew, something the two had shared.\
A small notification slid down from the top of his monitor to cover the upper right corner of the screen.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\pardirnatural

\b\fs20 \cf0 D - D - R
\b0 \
Voting begins in 
\i 5
\i0  minutes on 
\i referrendum 238ac9b8
\i0 :\
Summary: 
\i Tariffs on importation of goods from the Russian Bloc
\i0 \'85\
Cost: 1,000\
Bounty: 280,000\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 RJ moved to swipe the notification away - ey had very little at stake in the arguments between the Western Federation and the Russian Bloc, and could honestly care less about taxes on things that ey wouldn't end up buying - however, something clicked within em and ey halted eir motion just short of dismissing the notification.\

\i Cicero.
\i0 \
Ey hastily shuffled back through the Cicero Lost deck until ey came up with the 'recent net activity' card and pulled up the contents.  It took a few moments to remember how to sort tabular data, since RJ couldn't remember how to query for the life of em, but eventually, ey got the table sorted around the activity type and scrolled rapidly through the list until ey got to the list of Direct Democracy Representative entries for votes.\
The one thing that RJ and Cicero had argued about most of all was politics, and not just politics, but the worthiness of the current political system in all of its facets.  RJ was a left-leaning democrat - ey felt the representative democracy combined with the DDR was a pretty good solution, and certainly one of the better of the factions out there - whereas Cicero seemed to waver between loose communism or anarchy, depending on factors such as how much he had had to drink and how angry he was at the most recent vote.\
"I certainly can't see broad shifts going my way," he had said.  "But the least I can do is make my voice heard on every DDR that comes my way."\
Ey made sure syncing was on across all copies of the deck before copying those rows out of the activity table into a card of their own:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3040\clftsWidth3 \clheight142 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 DDR votes\
todo: process by record\
1 month, 2835 votes (!)\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 The icon in the upper left of the screen showing the deck flashed briefly to show the sync, and then RJ really got down to work.\
As it turned out, Cicero had voted just how he had talked.  On the surface, he was no different than any other leftist socialist out there voting on the DDR. One thing that came with the ability to vote on issues directly was the general election was the ability to comment for a price.  DDR votes didn't cost money, at least not real money, but they did cost credit, up to 1,000 per, which you gained by voting on cheaper issues, beginning with a few free ones in the form of a tutorial.\
What Cicero's records showed was that he was wealthy.  Incredibly wealthy.  RJ had a few million DDR credits banked away for no real reason other than in the case of a high value issue that he felt strongly about so that he could make a comment, because commenting could cost upwards of five million credits, and one could buy their way to influence by flooding issues with comments.\
Cicero's wealth surpassed RJ's at least a hundred times over, if not more.  For someone to be that active in commenting and still have that much wealth in credits stored up showed a dedication to following politics that was only just barely hinted at by the cat's tispy rantings in the Crown Pub.  Cicero was well connected, well read, and, most importantly, a key political figure on the DDR comment sections to an extent that none of the Crown regulars had ever expected.\
RJ sat back in silence for a few moments before uttering, "Well, shit.  Prisca, you don't suppose..."\
Rather than finishing the thought out loud, ey typed up eir conclusions in the contents of the card, in the notes section.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf0 AwDae here.  Looks like there's a lot going on in activity (where'd you get this, Debarre?) on DDR.  Cicero was into a lot, and I'm not trying to go all conspiracy nut on you, but do you think that maybe he got in too deep or something, and maybe that led to him getting Lost?  Not saying someone tried to do it too him or anything, just that maybe the more one uses the 'net, the more likely it is to happen to them?  I mean seriously, look at all of his votes, and his stash of credits!  I'll keep poking at this after rehearsal.\

\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Eir tea had gone cold long ago, but ey chugged it anyway.  Ey had spent longer than planned plowing through the data the hard way, and it was getting to be about time to head back over to the theater.}