{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Carter pulled back out of the sim when her personal timer went off, fifteen minutes before the timebox was up.\
Yawning and stretching, she made her way from her workstation to the small counter at the front of the old classroom.  She filled the electric kettle from the tap and set it on its base, letting it heat up as she scooped a few heaping spoonfuls of coffee and chicory into the coffee maker.  While she was in the sim, she had ensured that everyone else's workstation would have an alarm for the timebox, and it was only fair that she make everyone a cup of coffee before they pulled back.\
The coffee had finished brewing and the mugs were all set out in a row in front of the pot, each waiting with handles out toward the room for ready hands.  Carter had poured herself some of the brew, thick and bitter, and topped it off with a dash of sweetened creamer to dull the taste.\
One by one, the lab techs pulled back from their workstations and ambled up, still glassy-eyed, to the counter where the coffee lay.  Carter suppressed a smile at the sight of what looked like a horde of zombies in various states of disarray moving toward the pot and mugs.  The caffeine would be nice, but over the months they had spent on the project, they had grown into a comfortable ritual of holding meetings over coffee.  The habit remained unbroken.\
"So," she stated, once everyone was gathered around and coffeed.\
There was silence.  Sanders wouldn't meet her gaze.\
Finally, she caved and broke down her thoughts, putting on her manager's hat, "Timebox is over.  I think we got a bunch of good stuff done in a few hours.  There's definitely connections there, we've found a good number of them among the cases we have at our disposal, but there's precious little data on why those connections are there.  We've got a few furries, we've got a few 'net addicts - well, more than a few - and we've got a whole lot of DDR junkies.  None of those point to anything that would lead people to getting lost."\
"Man, have you 
\i seen
\i0  DDR zombies, though?"  Everyone laughed.\
Another voice piped up, "And the correlation on the neurochem side is extremely loose, almost non-existent."\
Sanders smirked down into his coffee mug before hiding the expression with a sip of the steaming liquid.\
"No, there's no doubt about that, is there?"  Carter sighed and shrugged, "So, again, timebox is over.  What do you think?  Is this line of thought worth pursuing?  Plus-one, minus-one, zero.  Sanders?"\
"Minus-one."  The response was immediate.\
Carter slipped her phone from her pocket and started a tally on the vote app she used for that purpose.  "Alright," she continued.  "Jacob?"\
"Zero."\
Tallying as she went, Carter went around the room,  The running tally took a few dings (neither of the lawyers were for the idea, she noticed), but remained net positive until the end of the line.\
"We're left at two, then."\
Sanders set his mug down with exaggerated care, but otherwise stayed silent in the room.\
"Hardly universal, so let's triage.  Can I get one from neuro, one from stats and history, and would one of the law team be willing to devote a tenth of a day to helping us out?  Just to run stuff by as we come up with stuff."\
Prakash Das from the neurochem team raised his hand, and Avery from statistics and history volunteered as well.  One of the lawyers, Sandra, gave a little shrugged and promised some of her time.\
"Alright, then.  Let's sync up, you three."  Carter smiled toward the rest of the group, "Not leaving you guys behind.  One-on-ones and daily standups will continue at the usual times.  We'll set a timebox of\'85three days, after which we'll reconvene and vote again."\
Sanders rolled his eyes and strolled back toward his workstation, Ramirez's eyes on his back.}