{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The sim was startlingly complete.\
In fact, the only thing that seemed to have changed was AwDae emself.\
AwDae's curiousity had wone out, and ey had made eir way back to the school's auditorium, exactly as ey had left it all those years ago.  Trudging up the few steps toward the entrance, ey feared that it would be locked, but the door swung easily beneath eir paw, and eir nails clicked against the lower portion of the sound guard in the doorway, leading em into a dimly lit auditorium.\
The house lights were at a quarter, and the stage was lit only by utility lights from the back.  All the same, it was enough for em to find eir way to the small sound booth, a counter with a light, off, and a bank of sliders and knobs, all zeroed out.\
AwDae brushed eir fingers along the lower lip of the soundboard, swishing eir tail out of the way to take a seat on the stool in front of it.  Ey reached a paw up past the master sliders, just around to the back of the board, where ey found the power switch.  Click.\
Nothing happened, so ey reached a little further back, finding the power strip for the booth itself, and toggled the power on that.  The board let out a satisfying pop of recognition as it came to life, the brief surge of power echoing throughout the hall as the speakers woke up.  The theater was purring to em, just as the one back in London had done earlier that night.\
Ey fumbled with the light to get it on, washing the unlit portions of the booth in red - red being the least obtrusive from the visible spectrum in a dark room - and exposing a thin layer of dust covering the board and booth in a thin, matte coating.  The only breaks in it were where eir fingers had brushed the dust away, leaving black slicks amid the gray.  Ey slowly brought the master volume up to the spot ey still remembered from so long ago, turned the gain to mid on mic one, and brought the slider up slowly.\
A soft hiss filled the hall.  The channel was open.\
That didn't mean anything, AwDae told emself.  There could be anything plugged into the snakehead in the pit.  A line with a powered mic, a receiver, or hell, a fault in the system.\
All the same, it was something.  Something in this seemingly abandoned hulk of memory was turned on, something else besides emself was making noise.\
Ey was about to head down to the pit to check on the snakehead, the terminus for all of the microphone cables or wireless receivers that stretched up to the board, when ey caught sight of a sheet of paper, folded in quarters, tucked between the side of the board and the wall of the booth.\
AwDae plucked the paper free and unfolded it, then held it under the red light of the booth lamp to get a closer look at it.\
There, in tiny print, was a good chunk of the content of the card ey had created earlier that morning to add to the deck.  Cicero's DDR ledger, containing transactions that comprised votes made, bounties collected, and comments posted.\
Frowning, AwDae refolded the note and stuck it into eir trousers' pocket, mulling over the small scrap of the outside world stuck in this elaborate fantasy.}