{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The pit revealed little.  There were twenty boxes set on a table in front of the snakehead.  Twenty receivers for wireless mics.  Twenty cables neatly velcroed together into a bundle, contracting from the boxes and expanding once more toward the dull grey plug box.  From there, the cables were reduced to a simple five-per-row organization, arching up from the snakehead before bowing under their own weight, each a graceful arc.\
All of the boxes on the table were dull, mute LEDs simple bumps on their surface.  All but one, the first one.  A piece of masking tape on its box marked with a simple '1'.  That box had a single red light on the front, marking that it was powered on, and a single green light, marking that its corresponding mic was transmitting.\
"Great," AwDae murmured.  "That lowers the position down to only half of the school."\
If it had been a wired mic, the search would have been over right as it started.  The cable would've been plugged into the snakehead, and by following it until ey reached its end.  There would be the mic.\
And what?\
There would be the mike, and ey would still be stuck in some stereotype of a nightmare, all dressed up for the high school performance and the auditorium completely empty.  The fox barked a soft laugh at just how cliche the whole situation was, turning away from the receivers and resting eir weight against the edge of the table on which they were placed.  Ey rested a moment there before hiking eir weight up onto the familiar surface, hearing the slight squeak of stressed metal from eir sudden burden.\
AwDae swung eir legs back and forth, hearing the table creak and groan in time with the slow movements, the sound quiet, but in the dread silence of the auditorium, more than enough to fill the hall.\
Ey stopped.  The hall was pleasantly wet: not damp or anything, but int terms of echo, it had just the right amount (or, at least, as much as a high school auditorium was willing to muster).  Had it been dry, the sound would've died away completely.  The dryer a room, the closer it got to approaching an anechoic chamber, a room lined with material such that it would reflect zero sound.\
Neither did the sound bounce back endlessly like an echo chamber.\
AwDae knew this hall, even still.  Ey knew the ways in which there would be pockets of good sound and bad sound throughout the seating.  Ey knew the dead spots on stage where one's voice would fall flat if it weren't amplified.  Ey knew how the stage was built rather like a horn, with the performers at the small end, so that their sounds were projected out toward the audience.\
And yet, that slight echo of the squeaking of the table fading out had given em an idea.  It was crazy, sure, but by this point, though ey hadn't admitted it in such terms to emself, if ey had gotten Lost, a crazy idea was better than none.\

\i And
\i0 , a bitter portion of em reasoned, 
\i if getting Lost 
\b is
\b0  permanent like people say, I've got nothing to lose.
\i0 \
The idea was this.\
The squeal of feedback in an audio system is known to most everyone, and even those who have not heard it before know immediately that something is wrong when it crops up.  It starts as a quiet hum in the background, but it doesn't take long before it can be understood as something originating in the system, rather than coming from the speaker or performer.  From there, it builds on itself, feeding back into itself, until it quickly overwhelms all sound coming into it.\
The idea is similar to the echo that AwDae had produced by making the table squeak beneath eir weight.  Sound was picked up by the microphone, transmitted through the sound board, and then out into the room, amplified, through the speakers.  However, the microphone was in the same room as the speakers.\
If the microphone started to pick up sound from the speakers -- or, more commonly, the monitors: speakers placed at the front of the stage and pointed back toward the performers so that they could hear themselves on the otherwise acoustically dead stage -- then that sound would come out of the speakers and be picked back up by the microphone once more.\
This was the feedback loop that was referred to.  That would continue to build through further and further iterations, until the auditorium was filled with a roar of the one pitch the microphone had locked onto.\
Obviously, microphones were still in use.  They hadn't been abandoned because of this roar, as there were many different ways around feedback.  One could angle speakers toward the audience, rather than the stage, for instance.  Bodies were notoriously bad reflectors of sound, which is part of what made the stage so dead, acoustically.  One could also not provide monitors, but that was cruel to one's performers.  One could turn down amplification, but that defeated the purpose.\
The solution, then, was gain.\
Gain was the sensitivity of a mic.  The simple adjustment was given a knob at the very top of the sound board, befitting its importance in the world of sound engineering.  Turn the gain all the way down, and the mic was a dumb lump of metal. Turn it all the way up, and the mic picked up everything from the movement of the air to the slight hiss of the live sound system, leading to almost instant feedback.\
If AwDae were to turn up the gain almost to the point of feedback, ey could try and make noise in various points throughout the auditorium.  The more feedback ey generated, the more sound the mic was picking up.  The more sound it was picking up, the closer ey was to it.\
Eir possible locations for the mic hadn't been reduced from half the school, but eir chances would go up.  If the mic was not in the auditorium, ey could turn the main system up and start venturing further afield with a door left open, allowing em to hear the theater hum like an alarm.}