{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 AwDae stood in the sunlight for a moment, blinking.\
Ey felt weak.  Not from hunger, nor lack of sleep.  Just worn out, exhausted.  This was starting to feel like grinding: that drudge that you went through when playing some role-playing game in order to level up.  It was always cast in a negative light, but then, you could quit a game.  Here ey was, finding clues and all the nonsense that went along with gaming, and for what?\
There was even a fog of war.\
"So much bullshit,"  ey laughed bitterly.  No sense in keeping quiet about it.\
Ey stripped down to eir underwear and shook eir fur out.  There wasn't much in the sense of comfort in a sim, so much as sensory inputs that the computer decided to send your way.  The musty smell of the auditorium seats had been one thing, but ey was starting to feel that, given the way this sim was constructed, there would be rather more than less sensory input.  Eir tux was not made for fox-people, and eir fur was decidedly matted.\
There was nothing to feel all that self-conscious about - ey was a genderless furry in the middle of an abandoned sim, after all - but ey folded eir clothes up all the same and set them on the sidewalk in front of the school before heading to the grass, the cool blades of the plants a welcome change from the indoor-outdoor carpet or tile of eir old high school and the roughness of the concrete.  Still clothed only in eir underwear, a simple garment made more to keep other sim participants at ease should ey disrobe, ey sat roughly down on the patch of grass, tail flicking about behind em.\
"Alright.  So."  Ey plucked viciously at a few close-mown blades of grass and held them pinched between eir pawpads.  "Cicero is Lost.  He was voting on a bunch of stuff as usual, leading the comment boards.  He voted on something, and it had passed, but that doesn't show in the records.  That's three things gone."  Ey plucked blades of grass with eir free paw, enumerating the facts.  "The vote cost, the bounty, and the comment he made."\
Ey swished eir tail around to the side and hiked eir backside up enough to slip it beneath them, rolling onto eir back to stare upwards.  It was too bright, so ey draped eir arm, fingers still clutching at grass, over eir eyes.  "And now I'm Lost.  I was working, and then I was here.  Before working, I was digging into Cicero\'85"\
Ey trailed off and spent a few moments thinking, then a few more just feeling the earth beneath eir fur, the way the grass seemed to find a way through to tickle at em more directly.\
"So had Sasha, though.  She was the one who got me the deck in the first place."  Ey ran through the acts ey had taken on the deck ey had been given.  Eir first write to the deck had been on the note about the voting records.  Prior to that, if such things were tracked, there was only the sorting and sharing of records.\
Ey lifted eir paw once more and stared at the remaining torn blades of grass before tossing them aside.  "Ah, hell.  I'm talking to myself.  If I'm going to go all cast-away, I might as well pick myself up a real companion, rather than just some blades of grass."\
Laughing, AwDae stood up once more and gathered up eir tux, heading back to the room with the couch and all of the costumes.  Ey hoped ey could find something that would fit eir form, taking into account that ey was a fox, now, instead of a human.\
}