{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The grey mist turned out to be a render distance.\
Render distances were used to reduce the amount of work the computer had to do to render a scene in a sim.  If one was in the school, that was pretty simple.  Buildings were fairly easy, made up mostly of polygons with textures attached.  Of course, if you got close enough, those textures would be mapped to an artificial surface to give them more depth, causing the system to work harder, but that was rarely an issue.\
Outside, though, that was difficult.  There were trees, curves in the ground, more complex shapes.  If, as AwDae suspected, all of this was happening within eir own gear, a render distance made sense.  It was as though visibility had been reduced to a hundred or so meters, but in a way that didn't dampen the sunlight at all.\
Had it been a barrier, AwDae could have walked up to the fog, but no further.  As it was, though, ey was able to follow the street ey would've taken to the home ey grew up in, way back in America, and the fog simply receded before em.  Ey could never truly approach it, it was just a small bubble into which ey had been placed: a bubble that moved along with em.\
The act of walking away from the school, wearing a backpack and heading towards home, did a lot to dredge up memories of their time in an American highschool in the '90s.  Though ey was a fox now, not a whole lot had changed.  Ey had carried eir tablet and few books too and from school in a pack not much different than the one ey had been wearing.  That was about the time ey had started to get more inventive with dress, and ey had worn several bits of clothing ey had picked up from thrift shops, finding a few different antique fashions to throw together into something ey could call eir own.\
Ey prowled through memories of Sasha - of dating, and then of becoming better friends after anything more than that hadn't worked out.  Ey thought back to her coming over to stay the night, eir mom checking in on them at one in the morning just to make sure everything was okay (and, bless her heart, to make sure they weren't having sex, though that was hardly RJ's thing).\
Ey missed Sasha's company, most of all.  Together, the two of them would've been able to keep each others' spirits up.  Sasha would've been able to figure out the problem with Cicero's voting record much faster then ey had, and ey would've been less alone, would've felt less hopeless.\
Ey trudged on toward home, reaching a paw up to snag a handful of leaves from one of the trees as ey passed, feeling the reluctant snap as they pulled loose from the branches.  For all the sim's complexity, school in the spring was pretty far remote from London in the winter.\
"School, hmm," AwDae mused aloud fanning the leaves out in eir paws. "Why school, anyway?"}