---
counts:
    characters_real: 8651
    characters_total: 10699
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2011-12-21-convention-mystique.markdown
    paragraphs: 15
    type: jekyll
    words: 1980
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/12/21/convention-mystique/
---

I was too excited to sleep, the night before Anthrocon 2005.  It was the first
convention I would be going to, I'd be meeting some truly awesome people for the
first time basically the minute I stepped into the hotel, and sleep just wasn't
going to happen.  In order to make sure that I could make it down to the airport
without crashing or anything, I planned on subsisting almost completely on black
tea through the night, then stopping on Starbucks twice on the way down from
Fort Collins to Denver.  Unfortunately, both my roommates were asleep, so I was
listening to music on my headphones.  I had forgotten that I had put the kettle
on for tea, so I was interrupted from my jittery reverie by my roommate knocking
on my door to inform me that the kettle had been whistling for five minutes or
so by that point.  I was lucky I hadn't boiled it dry.

With the lack of sleep and my excitement, I was basically useless for the first
day of the convention.  I got into Philadelphia at around 2:30 or so in the
afternoon and to the hotel by 3PM.  I stumbled into the lobby and met, for the
first time, my friends, some of whom I had known for five years, by that
point.<!--more-->

Due to my age and some lingering doubts about meeting furries, I had never
really planned on going to a convention, at least not until the beginning of
2005.  I had met furries in person before, of course; my partner and I had
visited each other on several occasions for the years previous, and I had a
small group of furry friends around me throughout high school and moving into
college.  It wasn't really until March or April of 2005 that I started really
meeting more and more members of the fandom, and then only when I was dragged to
a local furmeet by a friend of mine, where I had plenty of fun.

The problem with conventions for me until that point was two-fold: first of all,
there was this negative stereotype floating around about who furries were and
how they interacted with each other - the most succinct comment to this was the
oft-quoted "by and large, furries are bi and large" - which I found vaguely
disturbing; and secondly, I was so used to interacting with my friends online
that I wasn't quite sure how well interacting in person with them was going to
work out.  I knew, for instance, that my friend was a five and a half foot tall
red fox on the Internet, but I had been assured that he was a good bit taller
and most likely not actually a fox in person.  How would I interact with him?  I
knew for sure that I wasn't also a fox, so there were probably certain things
that we were used to doing that wouldn't likely happen in person: no swishing,
for instance, and there would probably a dearth of nuzzling, murring, and all
the rest.

Having started to interact more with furs offline, however, much of my fears
were allayed, and I warmed quickly to the concept of heading out to a
convention.  The people I had been meeting were normal people, and we had a
ready-made topic of conversation.  I figured things would be fine with a few
more of them around.  I pulled my money together and flew out to the final
Anthrocon in Philly.  Rather than finding a bunch of normal people milling
around with a ready-made topic of conversation, though, I found that conventions
were a little more complicated than just that.

For me, the first con was all about validation.  It wasn't so much that I was
around a bunch of people who could talk about the latest fursuit they'd seen or
bit of gossip they heard.  It was more than just a group of people, period.
 Furry wasn't something we did, it was something we were.  I hadn't understood
the concept of a furry lifestyle until then, but that certainly cemented home
the fact that we weren't just partaking in a hobby, but interacting with others
who also had this integral part of their lives, and expressing that with them.
 I don't really mean to wax rhapsodic about my first con, it wasn't all sunshine
and scritches, just that it was certainly more than I had hoped for: my friends
and I got along just as wonderfully in person as we did online.

It also helped drive home the idea that conventions are more than just a bunch
of people interacting in person rather than online.  I talked to several of my
friends that I had met at the local furmeet online and interacting in either
location was just a matter of either typing or talking, it didn't matter which.
 A convention, however, is more a unique medium.  It's not just a big furmeet,
and it's not just furries interacting offline instead of on; everything works
slightly differently in a con setting.  It's as if, after a certain number of
attendees (lets say twenty five), or in a certain location (almost always a
hotel), we cease being interested parties and become a little society of our
own, with our own mores and modes of interaction.

![Some
Fuzzies](http://adjectivespecies.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/773372500_1d8b429ca2_z.jpg)

Since I was pretty effectively hooked after that first convention, I did my best
to head to several more after that, making several more Anthrocons and man
Further Confusions, as well.  While I enjoyed my first few conventions in a near
ecstatic state, I settled down soon after to relax and enjoy my time in these
new surroundings and  in this new society.  Conventions have a rhythm to them, a
tempo, or a curve.  There's the building excitement leading up to the trip, the
hassle of packing and flying, and the first exciting few hours catching up with
your friends and having a few drinks, then the sustained joy over the next few
days until things start to wind down, with more people leaving the area, having
to go to bed early to make their early flights, crying in the hallways, lobby,
and airport.  It's something you settle into like a comfortable sort of routine.
 Every convention's different, of course, but I think the general experience
follows that same ramp up, sustained level, then tapering off, even if, in the
case of Camp Feral, there's that last trip back out of the woods tossed in.

There are a few other seeming universals tossed in along with the convention.
 It does seem possible to break the attendees down into several fairly constant
categories:

* **The New Attendee** - Bright eyed, in the throes of ecstasy, the new attendee
is easy to pick out from all other groups (excepting perhaps *The Nut*) as the
one who is mostly gung-ho about everything.  They want to go to *all* the
events, the want to ogle *all* the suits, they want to hug *all* their friends.
 These folks are really relatively harmless, and they help keep the conventions
exciting for those who frequent them.
* **The Nut** - Similar to *The New Attendee*, this person is totally gung-ho
about everything, except that it's almost certainly not their first con.  They
have the relentless, determined enthusiasm that drives many groups to go to
events or check out new restaurants in the area, or, on the flipside, drives
many people nuts.  While it's nice to keep some of that joy from the first visit
to a furry con, and it certainly is good to keep experiencing them, sometimes
it's best to just calm down, breathe...![Beef Jerky with some
micro-animals](http://adjectivespecies.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/l8ij1.jpg)
* ** The Lobby Lounger** - Sitting in the lobby and ordering a ceaseless round
of drinks (even if they're just waters), drawing and kibitzing, texting all
their friends to tell them to "just meet me in the lobby", this attendee is a
near permanent fixture in the lobby of the main hotel, preferring to soak the
con up rather than necessarily go out and experience it in panels and the
like.
* **The Wanderer** - Wandering from lobby to Dealer's Den to Artist's Alley to
the panels to their room to restaurants to the lobby *ad nauseum*, this person
is easy to find, but not so easy to pin down for plans - why stop? They might
miss something!  Of course, having spent the whole convention wandering around,
there's a chance they actually saw *less* than the might have otherwise.  An
important sub-category of this is *The Fursuiter*, who wanders around with good
reason - it's hard to do anything in one place for long without overheating or,
heaven forbid, not get quite enough attention.
* **The Worker** - There's always money to be made at conventions, or if not
money, a little bit of power, however benign.  *The Worker *is the artist who
will work their way through the con to hopefully come out of the affair net
positive, or the volunteer who will check badges at the door to do their part
for the convention.  Even if it might be difficult to to see them for more than
a few minutes at a time, they're still an integral part of the con atmosphere.

There's another universal almost too obvious to mention: convention badges.
 Most any convention has their own, obviously, but within our fandom, it's
customary to not only wear the membership badge, but also art badges created
specifically for the wearer.  These small, commissioned bits of wearable art
represent the owner's character, another unique artifact of the difference
between our selves and our characters.  So unique, in fact, that, concurrent
with the upcoming Further Confusion, there will be a portion of a gallery
exhibition in San Jose dedicated strictly to the art of the con badge.  They act
as a way to help carry our characters into our real-life interactions and blur
the line between the two somewhat.  We may not all be dressed up like our
creations, nor can we all swish and bark and so on, but at least we have a sign
of just who we are visible to those around us.

Of course, anyone who has been to a furry convention knows the basic
duck-and-weave of the con greeting.  With the near-absolute saturation of con
badges, it's be come standard practice to approach someone looking at their
chest, sleeves, or belt, wherever they've hung their badges.  Depending on how
friendly you are and whether or not you know the other person, you might jump
straight into a hug after that, or start chattering right away.  If you don't
know them, of course, you still know more about them after that brief glance
than you might if you had just met on the street, and that's something we've
written about
[before](http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/30/first-impressions/).  It
gives a whole new meaning to "my face is up here" (and, of course, if you put a
QR code on your badge, now they're pointing a *camera* at their
chest...).

The mystique surrounding the convention and the medium of interaction that it
represents is an integral part of the fandom.  For many, our conventions are the
high point of the year, a time to both see friends we rarely get the chance to
see and blur the line between our selves and our characters.  It's the time when
we get to let down our guard somewhat and show some of our back-stage selves,
show some emotion with how we feel about our little subculture, and maybe even
act a fool in a giant animal costume.  They're the time for us to live out our
culture in person.  It's interesting that, with a group based so strongly on
interaction on the Internet, some of our highest points are the times when we
get off the 'net and hang out in person - whether it be to relax, to have fun,
or to make money.

I'll see you guys at Further Confusion 2012!
