---
counts:
    characters_real: 7191
    characters_total: 8777
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2012-09-05-participation-mystique-3-on-pronouns.markdown
    paragraphs: 19
    type: jekyll
    words: 1536
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/09/05/participation-mystique-3-on-pronouns/
title: Participation Mystique 3 - On Pronouns
---

I seem to be drilling down with this (very spread out) series.  I started out
with a general overview of [participation
mystique](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/25/participation-mystique/) in the
fandom, narrowed it to some [specific uses of
words](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/02/08/participation-mystique-2-on-words/),
and now I'm focusing specifically on pronouns.  I can't say that I have any
plans for a fourth iteration, but I'm assuming that it will start going into
syllables.  Arf, bark, and the like.  Pretty good syllables, if you ask me.

Pronouns are already short enough as it is, usually only one syllable.  They're
some of the most common words that we use, and for good reason: they help us
keep our speech and writing concise and varied by letting us use a placeholder
instead of a name or a noun.  They carry a lot of weight for their relatively
small size, however. Weight that, I think, can tell us quite a bit about how
some people interact with the fandom, or even identify with their personal
characters.<!--more-->

A good place to start here, then, is how a pronoun works behind the scenes.  If
you were to say: "OtterFace is a river otter.  He enjoys wiggling, fish, and his
enormous tail," you have stated the subject of the statement as 'OtterFace', and
then referred to him twice using 'he' and 'his'.  I've [mentioned
before](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/12/meaning-within-a-subculture-part-2/)
that one of the ways to look at how language works is by recognizing that the
words we use are signs used to convey meaning.  When we talk about OtterFace or
his glorious tail, we're using signs - that is, words on a screen, sounds coming
from our mouths, etc. - to refer to two things that really, truly exist (or so
we assume).

The job of the pronouns specifically is to be set up as a temporary sign that
refers back to something earlier in the statement: 'he' and 'his' refer back to
'OtterFace' in the previous example.  They're a sort of sign on top of a sign,
in one sense; pronouns refer back to a noun that was already used, which in turn
refers to the subject.  They do have a tendency to wear out over time, however.
 If I talk about 'him' here, you might understand that I refer to our wiggly
otter friend, but once a new paragraph starts, it's usually about time to
restate the subject, because him has lost some of its power in referring back to
OtterFace.

This is all well and good, really; it helps us keep things flowing in the
language that we use.  As I said, though, pronouns in many languages do carry a
lot of additional weight beyond just being placeholders for a subject.  The
prime example of this, and the one I want to focus on, is the fact that you now
know that OtterFace is male, solely based on my pronoun choice. (pronouns also
carry a portion of identity with them).  This is part of the burden carried by
pronouns: I didn't have to specify that OtterFace was male beyond choosing and
using the proper pronouns.  Pronouns carry great importance, at least in
English, by specifying the gender of the sign they replace, helping us to form a
better mental picture of what is being described in words.

And here's where things get a little tricky.

One usually discusses gender with pronouns, but to be honest, "gender" in this
case is divided into at least two distinct areas: gender identity and biological
sex (three, if you count gender expression).  However, asking a transgender
person about pronouns will get you an explanation about all the ways in which
that relationship between pronoun and gender is fraught.  There are a lot of
connotations that not everyone is comfortable with when it comes to having some
things specified by so short a word, and having the wrong pronoun used when one
is dealing with gender identity disorder is just one of those terribly
uncomfortable things.  The upside, at least in some places in furry, is that you
present as your character, which can be of whatever sex you wish, making
pronouns all the easier to chose, for those interacting with you.

In fact, due to the fantastical nature of the fandom (that is, of a fantasy
nature, though we are fantastic as well), non-binary gender identities have
flourished and make up a sizable portion of the population in some locations,
far above the 1% of births that show some sort of sexual ambiguity\*.  These
range through the whole gamut of male and female primary and secondary sexual
characteristics, from primarily female to primarily male and everything in
between, and various pronouns have been more or less popular in describing
various areas on that spectrum.

[This article](http://io9.com/5939725/how-to-write-about-hermaphrodite-sex) on
io9 goes into some of the issues on describing hermaphrodites in terms of male
and female, including with pronouns; very much recommended reading.  While some
who present as a hermaphrodite with their character in the fandom use masculine
or feminine pronouns ("male herms", those who present as primarily male, with
both sets of reproductive genitalia, or "c-boys", males with a vulva and vagina
but no penis, both tend to use masculine pronouns, for example), several use
either a gender neutral pronoun set, or one that's specific to hermaphrodites.
One of the more common sets, 'shi/hir/hirs/hirself', seems to be fairly unique
to the fandom, even, and indeed would likely only be able to flourish in a
primarily written environment, due to the relative similarity of the words when
spoken to 'she/her/hers/herself'\*\*.  Others choose pronouns that have shown up
elsewhere offline, such as the 'zie/zir/zirs/zirself' or other such gender
neutral pronouns\*\*\* to represent someone of non-binary gender.

That leads us to non-gendered and neuter pronouns.  The difference between those
two terms was succinctly put when I asked a crowd online whether they preferred
'it/it/its/itself' or Spivak pronouns ('e/em/eir/emself', though the nominative
is often replaced with 'ey', to prevent ambiguity when spoken with 'he').  When
I asked this crowd of furs, there were the response was overwhelmingly
'it/it/its/itself'.  When asked, the three furs who had their gender set to
neuter and used 'it' for themselves explained succinctly, "I have some friends
that use Spivak pronouns, but they identify more as ‘none’ than specifically
‘neuter’.  ‘Neuter’ is a gender, whereas ‘none’ is more of an answer to a
question."  The fandom certainly provides room for the neutrois and the 'none's,
of course, and the means of interacting online provide a way for that to be
expressed as a part of oneself.

So why is this all important to furry?  I think that a lot of it has to do with
the ways in which we interact through avatars, our personal characters.   The
ability to partake in gender without necessarily involving biological sex is a
definite draw to many.  Disconnecting the two and, in some small way, totally
presenting as who one feels one should present as in terms of gender is not that
far away from presenting as what species one wishes to present as.  It's no
surprise, then, that expressing a different gender with a furry character is no
surprise to so many; it's not that far off from what we already do.
 Additionally, it is a prime example of participation mystique: entangling
concepts of gender with the fandom, for some, is another way in which we can
base a portion of our existences on our membership to the fandom.

Of course, this isn't something that necessarily holds true for everyone, or
even a majority of furries.  It's not even something that everyone accepts
within the fandom.  I do think that it is a good example of one of the ways in
which we connect with our subculture, and with each other.  Something as simple
as a pronoun used during interaction with another fur can be a sign of how they
have made the fandom part of themselves, just as for others the spiritual
aspect, or the artistic aspect, or even the sexual aspect can provide a deeply
meaningful tie to something as simple as a subculture with a shared interest in
anthropomorphic animals.

-----

\* This according to the (now defunct) [Intersex Society of North
America](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersex_Society_of_North_America), which
defines the term "sexual ambiguity" to include genetic issues such as
Klinefelter Syndrome which may or may not present beyond simple gynecomastia in
many individuals, which hardly fits the furry herm stereotype; the number of
births with truly ambiguous primary sexual characteristics is quoted as being
much smaller: "Between 0.1% and 0.2% of live births are ambiguous enough to
become the subject of specialist medical attention, including surgery to
disguise their sexual
ambiguity." *([source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersex#Other_possible_intersex_conditions_and_scope))*

\*\* A resourceful \[a\]\[s\] reader contacted me several months ago with a brief
analysis on how controversial 'shi/hir/hirs/hirself' can be.  Such pronouns can
elicit quite violent responses from some individuals.

\*\*\* On Wikipedia, [Gender-neutral
pronouns](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender-neutral_pronoun) is an exhaustive
list pronouns that are neutral in gender in some way or another, and includes
some pretty fascinating information and links besides.  English gets [quite the
table](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender-neutral_pronoun#Summary), even.

### Further reading

* [Meaning Within a
Subculture](http://adjectivespecies.com/meaning-within-a-subculture/) - Further discussions on
semiotics and linguistics.  
* [Boys, Girls, and the
In-Betweens](http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/16/boys-girls-and-the-in-betweens/) -
An early article on non-binary gender.

*Again, apologies for the slowness and shortness of articles on my end, and
cheers to JM for keeping things running along!*
