---
counts:
    characters_real: 6547
    characters_total: 8053
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2012-01-04-layers-of-fantasy.markdown
    paragraphs: 9
    type: jekyll
    words: 1471
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/04/layers-of-fantasy/
---

I found out recently that there's a name for the concept behind the movie
*Inception: mise en abîme*.  It's a French phrase which means "placed
into abyss", and refers not only to the sort of dream-within-a-dream concept so
heavily pounded upon in *Inception*, but also the concept of any thing
within itself, such as a representation of the painting within a painting, or
the feeling of standing between two mirrors and seeing the infinite
representation of self receding into the distance.  It also has to do with
different layers of representation and meaning in art, and, even though I've
mentioned before that it's surprising how mundane much of our interaction is,
that's what strikes me about the prevalence of fantasy and science fiction
within the furry fandom's artistic output.  It is a sort of stacking of
different layers of fantasy, with our focus on anthropomorphic animals being
layered atop science fiction or fantasy elements.<!--more-->

I suspect that a lot of why this weird dichotomy of mundane and fantastic
trends within the fandom is so striking to me is due to the different avenues
into the fandom that we've taken.  Speaking for myself, I found the fandom
along a decidedly mundane path - Yerf.com.  Even though I'd read all the
Redwall books at the time, had watched Disney's Robin Hood over and over, and
spent much of my time in elementary school role-playing scenes from The Phantom
of the Opera with a friend wherein everyone was a cat, none of those actually
struck the furry chord, as it were.  It was finding PacRat's art on Yerf.com,
images of furries in more mundane settings, that got me into things.  I liked
the fact that species became more an aspect of self rather than some
fantastical attribute about some fictional character.

That is, of course, not the only route into the community: several people I
know have talked about their entry into the fandom being based around some of
those things that I already mentioned, such as Redwall.  In fact, a good
majority of my friends found their way into furry through the more
fantasy-oriented routes, and that struck me as interesting, as here we were,
already pretending to be animal people.  It was intriguing to think of layering
fantasy atop fantasy like that.  It's difficult, of course, to draw a hard and
fast line between these two routes, as there are several people who are content
living in a mostly mundane world set perhaps a few years forward or backward in
time, or even a mundane life in the far future or distant past, yet I do feel
that there is a difference in mindset between the more and less fantasy
oriented furs.

I suppose that the difference between these two views of the fandom isn't so
much that we're applying our culture to a fantasy setting versus a mundane
setting, so much as how we view our focus on our characters.  If one views
one's character as some sort of fantastic being, some concept of self with
additional elements which extend beyond the norm, it's easier to place oneself
in a fantastic setting.  From the other point of view, if one views one's
character as one's self, simply expressed differently, or as something one
possesses rather than one is, then it might feel more comfortable to exist in a
setting closer to the one inhabited by the player - that is, a more mundane set
of circumstances.  The difference there being that there is a bit of a divide,
no matter how vague, between two sides of looking at one's character - as
fantasy, or as mere re-representation of self.

This sort of thinking struck me as interesting back when I was first getting
into the fandom, on one of my first sojourns onto a MUCK.  When you describe
your player using Triggur's seemingly omnipresent editplayer command, you are
given the opportunity to set a bit, or attribute, on your character to say
whether or not you can fly.  I had personally thought this rather strange: I
was just a teenage fox guy, living in a teenage fox guy world, where I had
surrounded myself with several other teenage fox, cat, or what-have-you friends
living in the same world.  What use did I have for flying?  I set the bit in
order to more thoroughly explore the MUCK that I had wound up on (Zorin's
FluffMUCK), as it was needed to do things such as go up, instead of just north,
south, east, or west.  Every now and then, I would play around with it, flying
up above the park, the main location on the server, where I could joke around
with friends or get away from the inane chatter below, but I never really
thought of it as flying, per se.

It wasn't until I started to explore further on other MUCKs such as SPR and
FurryMUCK where role-play was taken more seriously than it was on my original
hang-out of choice, that I found out that it really did matter to people less
mundane than I whether or not the flying bit was set.  Although in the long
run, I wound up simply finding another, older crowd of more mundane fox, cat,
and wolf people to hang out with, it always stuck with me that here I was, a
fox guy that could fly for, in my case, no real reason.  I never flew (I rarely
do much more than hang out in one room, to be honest), and even to this day,
never really consider it flying.  However, having seen and, once or twice,
taken part in more serious role-play in a more fantastic setting than what
amounts to a glorified chat room most days, I can say that this is likely due
to me just not being a very fantasy-oriented person, and perhaps there's a
personality trait that helps determine whether or not one feels more
comfortable interacting in a fantastic or mundane setting.

The downside to all of this, of course, is that it becomes difficult to
maintain without potentially losing some aspect of the fantasy.  A furry story
set in a fantasy setting runs the risk of being a fantasy story wherein all the
characters are animal people for no discernible reason, or perhaps a furry
story in which fantastical things keep happening with little explanation.
 Perhaps that's the sign of a really good furry role-player or writer, though,
being able to maintain a level of coherence within all the separate layers of
fantasy.  The requirements for a furry fantasy to be pulled off well require
miscibility: the risk is great of having a fantasy that happens to be furry or
vice versa, and so it seems to be important that furry be either a strong part
of the fantasy or at least part of the plot in order for everything to work out
well.

Another downside to these different routes into the fandom is the segregation
that is built into that fact.  That western society views role-playing of most
types as a geeky pursuit and geeks as a frowned-upon minority, it's no surprise
that the same outlook can carry over into furry pretty easily, given how much
of the fandom is based in western society.  Perhaps that's a big claim for me
to make, but having seen the way that the issue of "RP" can polarize furries,
I'm not sure of what other explanation there might be.  There are those who
totally buy into their character, and especially into the fantastic aspects of
them, and there are those who are in the fandom for some other reason, perhaps
more of an affinity than an identity.  The two groups occasionally have their
clashes, with arguments being based around the one group "powergaming" the
other, or the other group being too serious or roleplaying in comments.  As
yet, at least, the clashes seem to mostly involve the two groups poking fun at
each other.

Furry is a fantasy, there's no way around it - at the very least, it is a hobby
that revolves around what could basically be explained as fantastic creatures
with human attributes (or vice versa, of course), and on the other end of the
spectrum, it can be seen as a set of people with identities that more closely
match that of some other species besides their own, those who are perfectly
willing to buy into the fantasy.  Adding additional fantasy on top doesn't
always work out quite as expected, but seems to be the natural course of events
in that it's so easy to extend furry beyond its roots and into such realms.
 Some just like their animal people to be pretty normal, though, and that's
okay, too.  It's long since gotten to the point where the fandom is big enough
to hold all of us.
