---
counts:
    characters_real: 8974
    characters_total: 10866
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2012-01-25-participation-mystique.markdown
    paragraphs: 14
    type: jekyll
    words: 1893
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/25/participation-mystique/
---

Despite my frequent use of the word, I am more of the opinion that furry is a
subculture, rather than a fandom. That's part of the problem of being a writer
and having mostly just one topic to write about: thinking up enough ways to
refer to the same concept again and again without sounding repetitive can prove
difficult. I think that part of the reason that I keep referring to furry as
"the \[furry\] fandom" is that it is a phrase engrained within our subculture,
due to its historical use.  Perhaps at some point in time, furry consisted
mostly of a collection of fans, but as furry grows, so do the means with which
it's members connect with it.  That's why I enjoy subculture as a word to
describe us: it is much more all-encompassing and, in the end, perhaps a little
more accurate in describing our hodge-podge group.

When I was reading William Gibson's book Pattern Recognition, I was introduced
to the term participation mystique, which comes from early Jungian psychology,
adapted from Lévy-Bruhl in order to describe the means by which we, as people,
can define a portion of ourselves through membership in a community or
association with an object.  This, I think, is the core of the furry
subculture.<!--more-->

I don't think that I could entirely get away with not using "fandom" to refer
to furry. While anthropomorphism has figured large in most cultures, I think
that what we call furry today stems in large part from a combination of other
fandoms, such as those surrounding comic books, cartoons, and science fiction,
eventually coalescing into a more coherent group, though still (and as yet)
without a enteral nexus. It would be unfair of me to discount not only the
formative years of the fandom, but also a still significant portion of furry
that relies on their association with some extant product that contains that
kernel of anthropomorphism.

So much of not only my own childhood, but my early years within furry had to do
with the little fandoms that revolved around individual films.  Disney's
*Robin Hood*, the *Redwall* books, and even less direct examples,
such as animal companions - talking and not - in Saturday morning cartoons or
books such as Garth Nix's *Abhorsen* series (embarrassing admission:
when I first got into furry, I tried to do a comic of *Sabriel* with the
characters being foxes - lets just say it's good I stuck with music).

These sources are important to us because they give us an extant product to
latch onto, a body of work to study, expand upon, and dream up new microcosms
in the macrocosm of their world.  For the rare few who are gifted enough to
create the world in itself, it can be a little (or very) distressing, but the
human mind is always adept at treating a fictional world as a fractal, looking
closer and finding - or at least adding - more detail.  It's doubly important,
then that furry itself 'grew up' around these sources, at least in part.  It
allowed us to start with several very specific ideas, look deeper into them,
and come out with something general enough that a group of individuals from
different interests could come together and say "this is us".

Of course, this led to a new way of thinking of furry, especially once its
presence on the Internet began to grow.  A new member could find their way
inside through some way other than some existing fandom.  Despite being a big
fan of all the classic furry books and films, none of them really struck a
nerve with me - it was finding that others had built something new from those
roots that caught my attention.  I've mentioned before my roots in finding the
fandom through Yerf! and a few other sites (Side7 and Elfwood, anyone?).  With
the disclosure that it's what I'd call my own point of entry into the fandom, I
feel that a good portion of those who call themselves furry today follow much
the same route: a general interest in the concept of anthropomorphics not
necessarily tied to one single source other than what the fandom has already
produced.

I freely admit that this isn't a very intense association with furry.  For a
little bit near when I was first getting into the fandom, I did think about
myself as a fox (as I was at the time), and would often spend nights awake in
bed imagining myself comfortable with my partner, both of us our cute little
fox-sona selves.  I know that for some, this sort of self-zoomorphism can
become almost a whole-body species-dysphoria, extending from feeling as though
one exhibits characteristics of their animal character to feeling decidedly
uncomfortable being a human.  I feel as though I should be careful writing
about this, partly because I know relatively little about it beyond my own
simple experiences, but mostly due to the fact that it tends to shift at this
point into our...lets say "sister subcultures" of therianthropy and the were
culture, which are not necessarily the focus of \[adjective\]\[species\].  That
said, this focus on the species as it pertains to the self is still important
within furry culture, particularly when it comes to character creation ("I
don't feel like much of seagull, so why would I make my character one?").

We certainly cannot leave out the spiritual aspects of furry, either.  While
this, like most things, seems to go through waves of popularity, it's never
waned so much as to become insignificant as an aspect of the fandom. This is a
topic that certainly deserves its own article, so I'm only going to touch on it
a little here, but it is interesting to note. As there have been
anthropomorphic aspects of many cultures back through time, it's easy to see
these creating "fandoms" of their own. This is its own gradient as well: some
may latch onto the legends and play into the roles set down for them, while
others, seemingly unattached, will admit that they enjoy the trickster aspect
of their coyote-sona or the cleverness inherent in being a fox-based-creature.
 There's so much more that can be said about the spiritual aspects of being a
furry, that I really do think it will have to wait until its own article.  I
still have to tie this all back together with participation mystique after all!

With something as loose-weaved as furry, it's difficult to imagine there being
anything more than the faintest borders around the subculture.  There are,
though, and where there are borders, there's bound to be someone aiming to push
them.  Beyond simply the species available here on earth, many are more content
to explore the bounds created in science-fiction and fantasy universes.  At
least one of the followers of our twitter account is a Wookiee, and for a
while, there were several Kzinti and [Skiltaire](http://skiltaire.net) floating
around.

Beyond even the constructed species of these fictional worlds likes the only
vaguely-defined realm of post-furry, a sub-sub-culture of sorts with the goal
of pushing the limits of anthropomorphics beyond the "pure" combination of
animal and human characteristics.  While this may lead to some rather
borderline or intentionally humorous character creations, the postmodernist
viewpoint that seems to influence the postfurry attitude serves well with its
looser sense of reality.  This is another topic probably more deserving of its
own post in the future, considering the intriguing variety possible within it,
yet the dearth of information available on it.

All of these describe different aspects of our participation mystique as
furries.  The way we associate portions of our own selves with this abstract
noun that is "furry".  We identify with the fandom in all our myriad ways, and
by virtue of our identities, form the fandom in itself.  The question has come
up several times in the last few days about what exactly makes a furry.  That's
one of those questions that's decidedly difficult to answer in a way that's
satisfactory to all.  I think that the best definition that I could come up
with is that a furry is someone who claims to be a furry.  There are probably
some who fall outside this definition that others would consider as members of
the fandom, but it's part of our mystical participation that it be consensual -
one cannot be forced to identify with something.  I guess in that sense,
'furry' winds up being more of an adjective than a noun, though the word as an
adjective already carries too strong a meaning to be overloaded like that.

That there is a phrase for identifying with a group such as this is evidence
that this is not a unique phenomenon. In the context of the aforementioned
Gibson book, it was used in much the same way: describing the fascination and
partial identity with a fan base for a specific creation (in the book's case,
bits of film slowly appearing on the internet, and in ours, anthropomorphics),
but the same idea lends itself to other memberships that form portions of
identities in individuals. A good example that comes to mind is one's political
or religious affiliation, which, for some people shapes a good portion of their
identities. To state another example, since we've covered the belief and fan
ends of the spectrum, many members of the LGBT community also base their
identities on their membership, adopting styles, modes of speech, and
mannerisms from what they believe is the norm for such an identity, thus
perpetuating it's existence.

Given these examples, I'm tempted to ask what modes and mannerisms within the
fandom are perpetuated by identity with the fandom? There is certainly a good
amount of [lingo](http://en.wikifur.com/wiki/Category:Furspeech_terms) that
comes along with our membership, such as the word 'fandom' itself. Beyond that,
though, there are certain things that do go along with our culture, at least in
the case of conventions: certain styles, stances, and actions can identify the
furry from the non-furry.  Again this is something worthy of its own post, but
it's still worth noting that our participation in this larger culture called
furry comes with its...perhaps price is the wrong term, but certainly its
expectations.  One is no longer necessarily obligated to be familiar with
*Watership Down* or *Rescue Rangers* (though one should apparently be familiar
with dubstep), for instance.  The criteria for participation remain loose enough
for us to be a fairly accepting fandom, and it could probably be argued that
they have loosened over time, but there are still some lines, however faint and
pushed by the post-fur crowd (to name only one example) they are, which
identifies us as furries.

Participation mystique, mystical participation, is perhaps one of the best
phrases I've found to be used to define the fandom.  It's not something we can
(or should) whip out when trying to explain our subculture to those non-members
around us.  The concept of basing a part of our existence off something
non-spatiotemporal makes it all sound a bit like a strange religion, especially
when put in terms like that.  However, with all the different levels of
identifying with our animal characters represented, plus the consensual aspect
of self-identifying as a furry, I feel we've got just about all the bases
covered: a connection with our characters, no matter the source, and our
participation forming a portion of our identity as the crazy animal-people we
are.
