---
counts:
    characters_real: 6877
    characters_total: 8408
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2012-03-28-death-in-the-fandom.markdown
    paragraphs: 13
    type: jekyll
    words: 1532
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/03/28/death-in-the-fandom/
---

If we accept the fact that the furry subculture, the fandom as a cohesive group
of somewhat like-minded individuals, has only existed for about thirty years,
then we have available to us a growing and expanding membership at the beginning
of what I hope to be a long thread of human society. We're still in that bright,
almost expansionist era of our creation where we are doing out level best to
create more than we can consume. We bring in new members not only through the
shared interest in anthropomorphics, but also through both the vibrancy of our
existence and the social currency of our creative output. Furry, such as it is,
is on the rise.

We are still young though, there's no getting around that.

Thirty years, in the grand scheme of things isn't really all that long of a
time. The United States has lasted eight times that long, Christianity
approaching 70 times, and, according to some, the universe almost 200 times that
long, and that number is considered very, very small by many others. Our
vibrancy and social currency is strong, but we are not the only group on the
rise out there. In western culture, the anime fan base is taking a similar
track, as have countless other subcultures and fandoms before it. Our output is
copious and so, in turn, is our social currency, but they are not out of
proportion.

Our fandom is young, and given the median age of about twenty years old, we are
a fandom made up of many, many young people. Really, then, it's no surprise that
a single death among our ranks affects so many of us so greatly.<!--more-->

As I mentioned last week this article was one that has been in the works for a
bit, and was intended to go live last week. I, like JM, like to get the article
done a day or so ahead of time in order to make sure everything is set to go off
without a hitch. Unfortunately, while I had this article halfway done, I heard
the distressing news of the loss of two furries via several posts on FA. I
waffled for a few days about whether to continue on with the publication of this
post in tribute or to hold off out of respect, and, at the last minute, wound up
coming to this compromise of a weeks delay for a respectful entry.

Death and the larger concept of mortality have been our fixation for almost all
of recorded history. It's arguable, really, that death and mortality have been
the fixation of life for its entire existence here on earth. It's something of a
milestone in life when we start to realize that we're mortal, that we will end
and that at that point, something fundamental about our existence will change,
whether it's entering into heaven or simply the same unknown we return to that
we were a part of before birth. For me, it was about the time I turned eight or
nine and, leaning against my mother's front while watching TV, I heard her
heartbeat and it hit me, in a very logical fashion, that at some point that
heartbeat would stop and my mom would be no more. I suppose it happens to
everyone now and then, but from an individual's perspective, the idea that life
will eventually come to a stop is something that focuses the mind and all but
forces introspection.

Death is always a tricky subject, but especially so in a societal context.
 Death has become an industry in Western culture; not just dealing with the
remains of our loved ones respectfully, but also the industry of delaying death
and the industry dedicated to bereavement.  Whether or not the concept of the
end of one's life is cause for introspection, it's something that society has
grown up to deal with.  There are arguments to be made for the fact that death -
or at least protection from early death - is at the center of society and
governance.  The sharp contrast between life and death is often at the center of
much of religion and art as well, both social concepts.  It makes sense, then,
that a subset of society (and of religion and art, if you look at furry that
way) would also have its collective mind so focused by loss.

We have at least two benefits within furry, however.  First of all, we're still
relatively small.  The Tucholsky quip that "The death of one man: that is a
catastrophe. One hundred thousand deaths: that is a statistic!" would be
difficult to hold true in our subculture of one or two hundreds of thousands (an
arguable point, I'm sure).  For us, one death is a tragedy, but given our small
size, any number of deaths would likely be as much a tragedy.  Much of the basis
for this quote has to do with Dunbar's number, the suggested limit of stable
relationships one individual can maintain; with a community of our size and a
rough estimate of perhaps 150 for Dunbar's number, that means that, no matter
what, in the event of a catastrophe, the chances of one being directly affected,
either through personal involvement or a personal relationship, are much, much
higher.

The second, and perhaps more important benefit is that furry is based around a
willful membership.  *We* identify as furries, whether or not the interest in
anthropomorphics is innate, whether or not we feel a connection with animals.
 It is a choice, much more than skin color or biological sex could ever be.  Our
membership in the subculture comes primarily with the benefits of social
currency and standing within the smaller group, and in a limited setting with
such a friendly group, it's hardly surprising to see loosely connected people
paying their respects to the dead and the bereaved.  On the FA profile page of
any deceased or grieving member of the fandom, one is likely to see that nearly
every shout or comment on a journal is another fur offering their sympathies.

The interesting side of this is that many, if not most of those leaving their
shouts and comments do not actually know either the bereaved or the deceased.  
They have found out about it through their own social networks.  In our socially
oriented fandom with a relatively small mean degree of separation between
individuals, news about anything travels fast.  If one sees a friend grieving
over a loss, and makes one mention of it, chances are good that someone not even
involved will feel moved and may even leave their own note.

Nothing is ever quite so simple, of course, and there are a few downsides and
negative aspects to our relationship with death.  Primarily, just because we
know or know of someone does not necessarily mean that we like them.  Many
simply keep their peace in such situations, but some have noticed that
individuals will occasional create puppet-accounts on social sites in order to
post a negative comment or two, or even use their own account to rail against
the deceased or their loved ones.  I feel that much of this is likely due to the
anonymity provided by interactions on the Internet, but I could be wrong.
 Perhaps there is an additional aspect to our social nature or our tightly-knit
web of relationships that makes it easier for one to express their views, both
positive and negative, but that said, I hear far, far less about this happening
in person than online.

An additional factor to take into account is that the fandom *is* growing, and
at quite a clip.  There seems to be hundreds of new furries each day.
 Dragoneer, the owner of FurAffinity, recently mentioned that, in 2011, there
were anywhere between 300-500 new accounts created per day for a total of
145,787 new accounts in that year alone, most of which were estimated to be
unique, non-group accounts.  Along with the growth of the fandom comes a greater
chance of losing one's individuality in life and not being noticed quite as much
in death.  However, even if the number of random strangers comforting us in our
grief declines or the number of shouts from those who didn't know the dead
starts to decrease, our membership still gets us a caring family and many ready
friends.

In the end, however, death within the fandom is still something that strikes us
strongly. Perhaps it's due to our small size, or our tightly-woven net of
interpersonal relationships, or even due to the online nature of much of our
interaction, but no matter what, it's comforting to know that there are those
out there who, whether or not they knew us, would feel our loss. So let this
article stand in memoriam of FirePyro and Athus, Waarhorse and Randomonlooker,
Ponybird and Loki, and all the others who have entered into our lives through
furry and then gone. I'm opening up [<s>a
topic</s>](http://forums.adjectivespecies.com/viewtopic.php?f=4&amp;t=21) in the
forums for additional names to be added to the list; if the fandom has lost
someone in particular that you know of, feel free to add them to the list of
those to be remembered.
