---
counts:
    characters_real: 7508
    characters_total: 9138
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2012-02-22-interconnectivity.markdown
    paragraphs: 19
    type: jekyll
    words: 1631
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/02/22/interconnectivity/
---

Some things are better enjoyed alone.

Driving, for example!  That we even use the phrase "back-seat driver" points to
it being an endeavor best carried out by oneself.  Typing, as well, and writing.
 And programming for sure; I know that I certainly have a difficult time with
paired programming (because I'm right, of course).  Exploring one's own
emotional state, plumbing the depths of one's psyche, and working through one's
own problems are certainly meant to be solo adventures.  Sometimes we just have
to be solipsistic, separating ourselves from those around us to figure out
what's going on within us.

Furry, however, has become something that goes beyond solo.  It has become a
subculture, past even a simple fandom.  It's something to be shared, to be
experienced with others, and I imagine it would be difficult to find an
individual who would identify as a furry solely in a solipsistic sense.
<!--more-->

I know that I'm being a little glib in my use of 'solipsism', here.  Solipsism
is the idea that nothing really, truly can be sure to exist beyond one's own
mind.  It can be useful, to be sure, in the ways that I mentioned.  Part of the
reason I took last week off is that I've been struggling through a bit of a
tough spot, and I needed evenings and a weekend alone to help sort through some
of the mixed up emotions that have been plaguing me.  I had to withdraw from a
lot of friends, both online and off, in order to get my thoughts in order, even
at the expense of spending time with a bunch of animal people I really enjoy
being around, usually.

From a layman's perspective, this is an inkling to the big difference between
psychology and sociology.  Not simply that I was thinking about myself instead
of others, but that in order to do so, I had to pull back from the society
around me: work by myself, think through my own problems, and eschew the
distractions of chatting online or even in person in order to get through this.
 Now that I'm on my way back up, as it were, I'm doing my best to reintegrate
with my friends and cohort, to become a member of my team at work, get back into
dealing with my fiance and parents at home, and slip back into the fandom.

When I was a little younger and a lot more foolish, I spent some time writing on
what I was calling the Manifesto Project (which still exists in a crippled form
to this day; I won't dignify it with a link), which was my attempt to explain
what I believed and why.  The project wound up stalling out before I got very
far with it due to the sheer broadness of the goal "write about what you
believe".  Before I sputtered to a stop, however, I had started to pull together
some of my thoughts on what sociology was, what it meant to be part of a group.
 Prior to that point, I had written primarily from a solipsistic point of view,
pulling together ideas that had to do with me and me only.  And, as I'm sure you
all are well aware, I have a habit of boiling things down to a pithy phrase that
I can go off on for a few thousand words.  In this case, I chose "triangulation
of self".

I never claimed to *not* be a nerd.

I had been (and have been recently) thinking that a lot of what we do in our
interactions with others was done in order to help define ourselves.  We
surround ourselves with friends and embed ourselves in a society in order to
define our own boundaries.  And here, by interactions, I don't simply mean
talking and touching and what not, but judging others' reactions to us, and our
reactions to others.  This helps us see the shape of ourselves similar to how a
visual artist can depict a chair using only negative space.  The negative space
is sociology, filling in the details is psychology.

Of course, this is a long way around back to furries, and I'm sure there's some
far better term to be used besides "triangulation of self".  It is important
though, given how robust a subculture furry has become due to this
interconnectedness of its members.  We, as a group, rely on our social
interactions to perpetuate our interest in anthropomorphics in art, in
communication, and in self expression.  All of this, combined with our loose and
varied definition of what we actually are leads to our strength through our
plasticity.  That is, our strength comes from our ability to reshape the
community, or even our views of the community, allowing us to thrive and grow
over time.

It's this assignment of importance to social interaction in furry that provides
some of its greatest draw, I believe, especially during certain periods in one's
life.  It may even account for some of the skew in age seen in those within the
fandom toward those in their teens and twenties, that time in life when defining
oneself becomes so very important.  Add on top of that the common reliance on a
constructed avatar specifically used for interacting with others, and we have
this "triangulation of self" in spades.  Communicating and interacting with
other furries, both online and off, provides this definition of character so
many crave ("character" meaning both the character and the mental and moral
qualities of the player, here).  This definition of self through interaction is
perhaps part of the reason that conventions, furmeets, social communities online
and off, and so on are all so successful.

This is also so highly visible due to the ways that we communicate online, where
a record is left of our interactions.  Art sites such as
[FurAffinity](http://furaffinity.net), [SoFurry](http://sofurry.com), and
[Nabyn](http://nabyn.com), not to mention intentionally
social sites such as [The Furry Agenda](http://www.furryagenda.com), the [FA
Forums](http://forums.furaffinity.net/), and the fluctuating community of
furries on Twitter and other not-specifically-furry social sites are good
examples.  Heck, even sites like this one are nothing without both contributors
and readers.  \[adjective\]\[species\] is its own little community, in a way.

This may just be one of those things that is too obvious to require stating.  I
mean, of course we communicate with each other.  Of course we interact, and we
feel that we need to interact in order to express our characters and show our
animal selves.  What is interesting, though, and perhaps this is an artifact
more of the fact that we're a loose-knit online community than furries, is that
a lot of these services are free, fan run, and contain only fan-provided
advertisements, if any at all\*.

The reason I bring up the free status of these services is to point out
something unique within communities such as this.  Whereas in the larger
community of, say, the western world, capitalism suggests that a company's
success is decided by tconsumers spending their cash with them: Wal-Mart and
Target are as large as they are because so many people spend their money at
those stores, voting with their wallets in a sense.  With our free services,
however, the currency isn't financial, but social.  Sites like FA and so on are
popular and remain that way because they have earned our social currency.

The benefit for us as members of this culture is that we now have these treasure
troves of as the basis our social standing.  The relationships and social
dynamics within the fandom are very complex, and proof of this lies evident in
the ways that we interact through the 'net.  Not simply discussions taking place
in public, nor even the text sent back and forth between two people, but in the
ways we react and interact with each other, defining ourselves through others.
 One can buy art of one's character - a little, a lot, or none at all - and one
can comport themselves in certain ways in order to shape the way they're viewed,
and identify themselves through the process.

As a bit of a personal anecdote, I wound up finding my current career through
another fur, who wound up being my boss, in a way.  Almost every time we talk
about the fandom, I'm surprised at just how many people we both know, how much
of their stories and the fandom's history we can recount to each other.  It was
[recently
estimated](http://flowingdata.com/2011/11/30/four-degrees-of-separation/) that,
on Facebook, rather than there being the oft-quoted "six degrees of separation"
between you and any other individual, the gap is narrowing, now nearly down to
4.74 degrees of separation.   And that number is from the unintentional
community of facebook users.  It's no wonder that, with furry being a more
intentional subculture and with our draw to interpersonal communication, that
that number seems to drift even lower, especially keeping in mind that the
average person can keep track of about [150
people](http://www.cracked.com/article_14990_what-monkeysphere.html) in their
heads, and that most furs seem to surround themselves with like-minded
friends\*\*.

I know that this article was rambling, and I hope you'll forgive me as I get
back into the swing of things.  Even so, it's interesting that we are so reliant
on our interconnectedness to help define ourselves within the fandom.  Doubly
interesting that we draw so much of this definition from the social aspects of
so many different sources, online and off.  Interesting and comforting.

-----

\* As I was asked previously, \[a\]\[s\] is run\ without ads and doesn't bring
in any money - it's all paid for out of pocket and contributors post for free
under a [non-restrictive
license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).  We aim to stick to
this as best as possible, too!

\*\* Taken from an informal twitter poll and eleven years in the fandom - don't
hit me!
