---
counts:
    characters_real: 7255
    characters_total: 8810
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2013-04-10-appropriation-in-furry.markdown
    paragraphs: 11
    type: jekyll
    words: 1556
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/04/10/appropriation-in-furry/
---

There are a lot of ways to think about furry. Tons and tons. It's a bit
confusing at times, trying to sort out how best to talk about what we are and
how we fit together as a subculture. Even the choice of the word "subculture" is
loaded with its own meaning, just as is the word "fandom". Both imply certain
ways of thinking about how furry works. It's a bit confusing, but, well, it's
certainly served us well here at \[a\]\[s\]: we've got plenty to write about, after
all.

One more way of thinking about furry is to think of it as appropriation - or,
rather, a series of appropriations - that help provide something of a common
core to our being a relatively coherent group. Appropriation is a big and
complicated word, and there are several connotations attached to it that I'll
get into closer to the end of the article, but first, I'd like to explore furry
through this lens and see what can be gleaned from thinking of ourselves in this
light.<!--more-->

One of the easiest forms of appropriation to see is commercial appropriation.
Commercial appropriation is what happens when elements of commercial products
are adopted by people in a way not necessarily intended by the producers of that
commercial content. In a way, this is how many fandoms work: a producer will
create and release content of some type intended (insomuch as intent matters)
for entertainment or something similar, and a group of people will appropriate
that content or object as part of their identities. With as loose of a group as
furry is, it's not surprising that commercial appropriations within the fandom
happen often. Watching something such as *Balto*, *The Lion King*,
*My Little Pony*, or *Sonic The Hedgehog* while holding in your
mind this affinity for anthropomorphism, it's easy to see why, too. This goes
beyond simply creating *TLK* or *MLP* characters, too, but also in
adopting and creating things within the newly formed fandom (or sub-fandom, in
our case, as I'm speaking specifically of those who identify both with furry and
also this appropriated creation). Even those who do not overtly participate in
this appropriation can subtly add to it through their acknowledgement and
interaction with those aspects of the fandom; JM's recent articles on *My
Little Pony* fall along those lines, in their own way.

Another form of appropriation that crops up within our subculture is that of
cultural appropriation. One of the ways in which this crops up is through
appropriation of spiritual or the adoption of ideas central to spiritual
practices within a non-spiritual context. This can happen both overtly and
subtly. Overtly, I've seen quite a bit of shamanistic art and design going into
certain characters, reflecting north and central American native culture. To be
more specific, a number of coyotes that I've met of late have talked of Coyote,
a spiritual persona or even deity of many Native American tribes. Beyond these
obvious connections, however, there are more subtle, subconscious appropriations
that fit more neatly within those of us who reside firmly within Western
culture. It's not uncommon to see clever foxes and coyotes, or smug, aloof cats,
or even the concept of lone wolves. This isn't universal by any stretch, but it
does show a reflection of western society's collective mythology adopted in a
very literal sense within our anthropomorphic inclinations.

There are other ways to think of cultural appropriation, as well. We adopt and
adapt widely from the culture around us, much of which comes from the consumer
culture of the western world, but some of which is new, and taken eagerly from
what we know and consume. For instance, the fandom surrounding the *My Little
Pony* franchise has mingled with the furry subculture within the last few
years, mixing stylistically and idealistically in both directions. There are
more subtle indications of cultural appropriation.  For example, some of the
participants of FurCast (hey guys!) have argued that there are aspects of
hermaphroditic characters furry fandom that have appropriated portions of the
trans\* experience into their characters and identities (though see the note on
this below).

Even the idea driving furry itself, or at least a seeming majority of it, is one
of appropriation: appropriating characteristics of animals and applying them to
oneself in ways extending beyond their original "purpose". Adopting ears is one
thing, but appropriating a keen sense of hearing in role-play can indicate an
entirely new purpose, and the same applies to scent, pack behavior, hierarchies,
or even species specific talents, such as tracking, alertness, or affinity for
shinies.

Appropriation is a complicated subject (as many things with their own Wikipedia
disambiguation page tend to be), and it should be noted that there are a lot of
different ways of thinking about the topic, and each has their own connotation
to go along with it. The ideas of cultural and spiritual appropriation, for
instance, are often viewed in a negative light. It's not just that one is
"stealing" or "not doing it right" by not participating *in toto*, so
much as, by attempting to maintain one's cultural identity, having an external
party appropriate a portion of that identity for their own means can be seen as
weakening the worth of the whole. On the other side, many disagree with this,
especially when it comes to the concepts of commercial and social appropriation,
as the current way of thinking is nothing if not cynical: by appropriating
portions of art and commercial products, we are creating something new,
something beyond, something worthier. I think that this is a lot of what drives
fandoms in the current day and age. By taking something that was intended for a
single, often financially oriented, purpose and making it a portion of our
identities, we are giving it a life of its own as breathed by its more spiritual
participants. And sometimes, it's simply standing on the shoulders of giants: if
we have seen further, then that is often the reason.

None of this changes the fact that, when we take a step back and look at it from
a far, a lot of the core of our culture is based on appropriation, good or bad.
 We've built ourselves up out of what we were given, in a way, and that helps to
provide us with a set of ideas that many of us hold as part and partial to both
our identity and also what we expect from others within the fandom, whether
they're producing things for us to consume (as in expectations in art,
literature, and so on), or interacting with us as fellow members (as in social
expectations adopted or character attributes appropriated). So much of furry is
appropriated from elsewhere, though it's the way we put it together and make it
work that makes us who and what we are.

In the end, as with many topics as far reaching and variegated as this, it's
hard to tell whether or not this is a good thing for the fandom or not. It
certainly applies, at least to some extent - after all, we are not a culture
built totally on appropriation: all it takes is a glance at our own readily
accessible productions. Even the examples that I've tried to look into, with my
own limited scope, must be taken on an individual basis It has its positive and
negative connotations, and it can be seen as both adding to and hindering our
constructive growth as a subculture. All that said, though, I stand by what I
stated earlier in that taking a step back and looking at furry as a whole in all
these different ways can help us understand the ways in which we do grow,
constructive or otherwise. By understanding that there are those whose
productions we are appropriating for ourselves, or whose societies whose
cultures we are adopting bits and pieces of, we can understand how we have
gotten where we are *now*, and by looking at the things we are doing at
this moment, we can help see where we might wind up in days to come.

-----

Note: I know that I really shouldn't get into this too much here so as not to
derail the article too much, but I do feel that this comment is worth explaining
further. The trans\* community, of which I'd consider myself a part, is really
quite new, and even much of the underlying theory of gender goes back only a
century at most (though there were certainly descriptions of both before, it is
important recognize the start of a cohesive idea or set of ideas, however).
Those that I've talked to, along with myself, don't agree one hundred percent
that those who have hermaphroditic characters are appropriating portions of the
trans\* or intersex experience into a lifestyle or role-play so much as
exploring non-normative gender as expressed though a character's biological sex,
but that hardly implies universal agreement, and there are certainly aspects of
fantasy, particularly sexual fantasy, that can impinge uncomfortably on reality
for many, many individuals. However, this is a very large topic, and \[a\]\[s\]
may not the place to explore it outside its own article, and so I'll leave it
be, with the warning that this is bigger than it might appear on the surface.
