---
counts:
    characters_real: 8667
    characters_total: 10542
    file: ./posts/furry/adjspecies/_posts/2013-03-20-leadership-in-a-decentralized-subculture.markdown
    paragraphs: 10
    type: jekyll
    words: 1876
layout: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/03/20/leadership-in-a-decentralized-subculture/
---

Furry as a subculture may not be "mainstream", but neither is it small. The
fandom has grown by leaps and bounds over the last few decades with expanding
easy access to the Internet, the proliferation of furmeets and conventions, and
even just plain old word of mouth. Estimates put the current size of furry at
somewhere between 20,000-50,000. This is, of course, a very rough guess based on
responses to The Furry Survey and other polls out there, but even at this size,
we're talking about a good-sized town (Fort Collins, Colorado, where I live, has
about 70,000 people living in it, and about 25,000-30,000 of them attend or are
otherwise affiliated with Colorado State University, so maybe we can guess at
the size of a popular American university), with one very important distinction.
A city in America has a council and a mayor, and belongs to a congressional
district and a county, which fit within a state, which fits within the country,
which is part of several overlapping groups of nations, all of which are
(currently) stuck on one world. It's as if much of our culture here comprises a
series of nested centralized forms of leadership and government. Even the
university analogy works similarly.

Furry as a subculture, however, is almost completely decentralized. Many of us
meet up and talk on the Internet, where we share our art and ideas, but many of
us do not. Many of us meet up in person at furmeets, conventions, or even
unrelated events such as parades, but again, many of us do not. The whole
concept that "many of us do, but many of us don't" is consistent across all of
furry and can be applied to creating art, role-playing, fursuiting, or most any
activity that takes place within the fandom. Given this decentralized and
diverse fandom which nonetheless holds itself together, how does the concept of
leadership fit in?<!--more-->

The word "leadership" has a formal ring to it, but can be used to describe any
form of guided social interaction, however informal or unintentional. In fact,
one of the primary ways in which leadership is shown within the fandom is that
of small groups leading through their own interactions. This way of leading by
example is often a good source for the spread of memes, ideas that pass from
person to person. It's almost a type of group-think at times, as after all,
we're already trained to think along similar lines, given that we're all
generally interested in this one larger trope of animal-people. There are those
with the social currency or visibility that can wind up leading these trends
within the fandom in their own way, however unintentionally. Trends such as the
rise in popularity of streaming artwork or Your-Character-Here commissions, or
trends in the music we listen to, or even the ways in which fursuiters act
(there was, for quite a while, a swishy sort of "fursuit walk" that would cause
the suit's tail to wag which seems to have diminished in popularity over the
last year or two).

Another similar form of leadership within our community is that of incidental
leadership, and this is primarily shown through the intentional promuglation of
ideas, which can take place through content production or actual leadership
within events such as furmeets or cons. This can occasionally be bound up in the
idea of popularity (a muddied word if ever there was one), but that certainly
isn't always the case. This is, I think most visible within the area of visual
arts, where artists will influence styles that will persist and grow based on
their popularity, such as the paintings of Blotch or the fur detail in Ruaidri's
art. However, this extends far beyond that, and fursuits are another place in
which this is visible. A certain manufacturer's fursuits may be readily picked
out of a crowd, such as those made by One Fur All Studios, or certain
expressions may become more and more popular, such as the "Pixar Look" or the
sunken "3-D eyes" style. All of these things point to the subtle leadership that
goes along with content creation, especially in a culture such as ours where
it's not only common but almost expected for such content to be published for
the widest possible audience on sites such as Weasyl, SoFurry, and FurAffinity.
Even \[adjective\]\[species\] could be said to fall into this category, as it is
our intent to publish our works in an easily accessible way for the widest
audience, even though we have no intentional designs on leadership.

Finally, there are some instances where there are quite formally defined
leadership roles, whether it be the committees running conventions, or site
administrators and volunteers such as those that run FA or Wikifur. These are
the instances in which the leadership aspect gets closest to actual governance,
in that the board running a convention does so by having each member fill a
specific role, heading their own team of volunteers, in order to accomplish a
certain goal. The administration of a content-hosting website faces similar
challenges, often solving them in similar ways: by delegating certain tasks to
people in specific leadership roles in order to accomplish a goal, such as
content moderation. These are pretty common and well established practices as
well, with few systems working in different ways - Reddit is a good example of a
content-hosting website that eschews leadership (for the most part) in favor of
quality-voting; Discourse, a forum, works similarly, by letting users with more
points do more in the way of moderation. However, these examples of con boards
and site admins are very specific to their purpose and rarely escape beyond
their bounds and into the wider world; though to be sure, some leaders within
these roles also carry additional social status due to their roles within their
domains (viz, Samuel Conway or Dragoneer).

Is this bad? Having a decentralized subculture with a fluid sense of leadership?
I don't think so. It's certainly not just a furry thing, as there are countless
examples (just as there are countless counter-examples) of groups of people such
as ours being decentralized with a fluid leadership. However, I think that it is
central to our identity as far as it can be, in such a decentralized group. How,
then, does it benefit us? That is, how does this affect our forward motion with
regards to change? That is a complicated sort of question to answer (given how
many words it took to ask!), but I think one worth looking into. How is it that,
given our lack of a sense of centralized leadership, or even a cohesive...well,
anything, that we have perceptible shifts in artistic styles, convention habits,
or even the shared interests or our new membership.

When it comes to art, we benefit from the lack of canon, the lack of a need to
utilize any particular set of characters, clothing, style, or even content to
any of our visual art. In a way, that seems to give us a little too much
freedom, in that "overwhelming choice" sort of way. We're nothing if not
inventive, though, and I think that there has been a large increase in the
amount of artists and the quality of the art produced over time despite the fact
that we have no guiding canon to work within. Much the same goes for fursuits,
and this is helped out even further by the fact that many of the techniques and
standards are being created out of whole cloth by the makers within the fandom.
Not just the makers, either, as fursuit performance has changed in its own right
over time. Of course, writing benefits from this as well, given the additional
challenge of creating well-written furry works that are truly pertinent and not
just incidental - that is, not just a story where the characters happen to be
furries; something which has been accomplished in increasingly wonderful variety
over the years.

It's not just content creating that has changed, though, but our styles of
personal interaction, both online and off. The ideas of characters have shifted
in prominence due to the shift in online interaction from that of the more
purely art-based worlds of Yerf! and VCL, to the mix of art- and social-based
worlds of FA, SoFurry, and Weasyl, to the mostly social networks of Twitter and
the like. These are, of course, generalizations, and certainly applicable
outside of furry as the Internet matures, but given how much of the fandom does
take place online as well as how many of us fit into the "early adopters"
category, it's certainly affected us as well. The same could be said for offline
interaction, as the common and socially acceptable behaviors at conventions (two
things which don't always overlap). What is generally recognized as a proper
con-going attitude has changed with the increased prevalence of conventions
around the world and on just about any given weekend.

There is a constant stream of new members to the subculture as more and more
people find furry through the Internet, through friends, or just invent it
independently on their own. For those who find it through others, however, they
are influenced immediately by their first impression, gained from their
acquaintance with someone experiencing the whole of furry at a certain point in
time. As these new folks join the fandom, they also help steer it by adding
weight to whatever drew them to the fandom in the first place, and I think that
this accounts for some of the ways in which our culture grows. If you were to
find the fandom through, say, an artist, and thought of furry primarily as a
group of individuals who put prime importance on art, then that might be your
defining furry aspect. This is how it was for myself, and it took me nearly ten
years to really even understand the whole fursuiting thing and why it was even a
big deal. This sort of bias helps to reinforce and further some of the aspects
of our subculture. Sure, "new talent" is joining the fandom, but so to is
someone interested in a certain aspect of it, adding their own weight and input
to that area. We don't move forward in the same direction all at once.

In reality, this is a large part of what furry is all about for a lot of its
constituents: the fact that the fandom is decentralized allows one to make their
own way, but we are not without social direction, given our guiding interest in
anthropomorphics and animals. It runs counter to enough of what we face in day
to day life that it's refreshing in a way, for a good number of us, to be a part
of something that doesn't quite follow the same hierarchical strictures of so
much of the rest of society. It's a place where anyone can be in a leadership
role without necessarily needing to be a leader. Talking with others, producing
content, or even acting in a governing position of something such as a con or
website are all things that we can do here that, in their own way, wind up
giving back to our subculture and helping make it what it is.
