st The walk --- or perhaps stumble --- back to Dani's apartment had been a rushed and urgent affair. After the coffeehouse and the spicy-sour-sweet tea, neither had wanted to go back out into the cold.

st Still, they'd made it, and while both were shivering by the time the otter had latched the door behind her, neither were frozen.

st Anne stood just inside the door, looking shy. Dani shrugged out of her peacoat and helped the ringtail out of her own to hang them both together by the door.

st After a moment's hesitation, Anne also shrugged her backpack off and propped it up against the wall right next to the door. Beneath her coat and pack, she was wearing a hoodie over a T-shirt that had obviously seen better days. The ringtail was smaller than Dani's initial estimate; a few inches shorter than herself and slight almost to the point of waifish.

st "So..."

st Dani laughed, "Sorry, didn't mean to space out like that. Pardon the mess."

st Anne tilted her head to the side and grinned, "Your place is kind of the opposite of a mess."

st "I sometimes get extra organized," the otter demurred. "Make yourself comfortable, though."

st Anne nodded. They stood for another few moments.

st The silence grew weird.

st "I, uh," Dani straightened her shirt. "I don't have anyone over all that much. Can I get you anything?"

st Anne moved cautiously to sit on the couch, perched at the edge of the seat. "If you have any...I mean, I don't want to trouble--" She shook her head and gave Dani a bashful smile. "Do you have anything to eat? I can work to pay you back."

st The otter straightened up and grinned, "Oh! Yes, sorry, and don't worry about paying me back."

st Dani cooked in silence. It was well past dinnertime by now, it needed to be done. She usually cooked three portions anyway, so she just wound up making one of her regular meals.

st There was no getting around the strained tension in the apartment. Dani's place was small and neat, and obviously built for one and organized tightly to that one's specifications. She couldn't afford much, loans being what they were, and yet she felt obnoxiously wealthy, with a homeless girl sitting on her couch.

st She also felt obnoxiously awkward. It had been easy enough for her to help Anne from the fountain to The Book and the Bean, and from there to her place, but now it was obvious that she really *didn't* have anyone over all that much. Or at all.

st She suspected that neither she nor Anne were all that good at engaging with others, and each had led to its own outcome. Dani had buried herself in school and work as an attempt to cope with a disordered mind that wanted everything else to be in order, one that didn't really cope well with others around. She was pretty sure that Anne wasn't all that keen on being around folks either, though she couldn't guess why.

st Dani brought two plates piled high with pasta over to the couch where Anne had parked herself. "It's not much, but it'll be filling. Let me know if you need more, too. There's a whole other serving still on the stove."

st "Thank you," the ringtail said, whiskers and tail both bristled out at the opportunity for food. She seemed to be watching Dani for cues, but when the otter took a bite, she dug in. No prayers for either.

st It was easy to tell that Anne was doing her best to keep from just wolfing the food down. She looked like she was focusing on forking up reasonable amounts of pasta and chewing thoroughly, but her hunger showed in her movements. And as predicted, she cleaned her plate.

st "Thanks again," she said, paws clutching at plate and fork tightly. "For everything, I mean. I was colder than I thought out there. Freezing."

st Dani set her plate down on her lap and nodded, "I thought you were a backpack at first, all bundled up like that."

st Anne laughed. "Kinda, yeah. Was hoping I could just conserve all my warmth under my jacket."

st "I think you'd probably need more than a jacket out in that level of cold, and it wasn't even dark yet."

st "No kidding." The ringtail looked down at her plate for a moment, then shrugged. "Dunno what I would've done."

st "And Open Door was full?"

st "I guess. Kinda."

st "'Kinda'?"

st Anne frowned at her plate.

st "It was full, then," Dani said quietly, trying to settle the matter before any of the ringtail's obviously complicated emotions needed to be put in words. "Is there, er--another place with beds?"

st "I dunno," Anne mumbled. "I only just got here last week. Had been staying at Open Door."

st "Where'd you come from?"

st "Out east a bit. Making my way out to Oregon, nice and slow. Was born here in Idaho, figured I'd get a good look at the state before heading off."

st Dani laughed. "Fair enough. Never been out of state myself."

st Anne nodded, "I seen a few, but mostly saw a lot of brown grass and pine trees. I wanna go west, see all that green they have there."

st "You, ah--" Dani hesitated, trying to think of the best way to ask. "Bussing? Hitching rides?"

st "Mostly hitching. My...well, we came in with a guy who drives between towns once a week."

st Anne was loosening up with the food and warmth. Her speech coming more fluidly, and language less stiff and formal. There were things still being held back, but the otter figured it wasn't really for her to know.

st "So you landed here." Dani stood and took Anne's plate as the ringtail held it out to her. "Pretty cold time for hitching out west."

st "Yeah, it's crazy out. Been through cold snaps before, but not stuck out in one like that."

st Dani stacked the plates in the sink, right where they belonged, and thought of Anne. Here was this sudden ringtail-shaped kink in her life. She felt confused and anxious and tense. She'd have work tomorrow, and this wasn't how she'd pictured her Sunday would go.

st "Listen, I--"

st Anne jolted upright. "It's late, sorry. I can head out, I think there's another shelter in town."

st Dani blinked away a moment of confusion and shook her head, whiskers bristling out in a grin. "I was going to suggest you stay here for the night." She gestured to the couch and beanbag. "Plenty of space, and I don't think either of us want to head out again."

st "Thank you," Anne mumbled, ears pinned back. "That wasn't what I was expecting, but thanks."

st The quiet that followed was broken by a giggle from Anne. "You know, you remind me of one of my mom's friends."

st Wrong-footed, Dani tilted her head. "What?"

st Anne stood from her spot on the couch and nodded. "She was a fox, not an otter, but she was kinda like you. Neat, you know?"

st Dani laughed and nodded.

st "Do you have any blankets for me? I'll tell you while you look."

st Dani nodded and padded to the hallway by the bathroom, opening the cabinet there to hunt around. Sometimes, she'd fall asleep on the beanbag rather than her bed. She'd always wake up with a weird kink in her tail or with memories of strange dreams, so she'd been trying to avoid it, recently. Still, she had some blankets of various thickness that she cycled through.

st Anne continued her story as she followed along, trying to help where she could. "She was neat, like I said. She and her husband. Her husband would make things a little messy, but she'd put them in order. It was weird. Their place wasn't super clean, they had a lot of stuff, it was just all organized"

st Dani poked through the blankets, before giving up and just grabbing them all. It was cold, after all, might as well make sure her guest was comfortable. She stuffed the blankets into Anne's outstretched arms before reaching back for the pillows on the shelf below.

st "Anyway, they were super nice. But the guy, her husband, he got sick. Cancer or something. He passed away. Killed us all, you know? We all loved the guy. Mostly, though, it killed us to watch her. Her tail got all droopy and her fur would get matted and dirty, like she couldn't be bothered to organize again."

st Dani wasn't sure where the story was going. It didn't sound like a flattering comparison to herself. Still, the ringtail seemed to be having a good time telling it. She wasn't so bristled out anymore, and was loosening up. "Did she wind up getting organized again?" Dani asked.

st "Oh, definitely! You know, you get sad and stuff, and then things slowly get...I dunno, not easier. They get more comfortable. You can live with them better, you know?"

st "Yeah, I get that."

st "Anyway, they were super close, this couple. Two foxes who just couldn't live without each other. We thought this gal was gonna kick it soon after her husband. You know how that goes?"

st Dani nodded, setting the pillows down on the couch.

st "Someone told me once that girls outlive their guys, though. If the guy dies, the girl will keep going, but if the girl dies, the guy's not long after. So maybe we shouldn't have been surprised she kept on going."

st There was a bit of a pause as Anne decided on the beanbag over the couch. It looked soft, she said, so she started piling blankets up on it.

st "Anyway, poor fox. She gets her life back on track, gets her place all neat again, and starts lookin' for another guy, you know? You can remember your loved ones, but you gotta have company, and all.

st "Anyway, weirdest thing, though. There's lots of foxes in the area and such, so she's not hurtin' as to selection, but she keeps turnin' down loads of them. Says she'll reject any who don't look like her old husband. Isn't that weird?"

st Dani laughed and nodded. "Uh huh. Sixty five."

st Anne stopped fussing with the blankets and stared at her. "What? Sixty five?"

st Dani nodded again and, with the cabinet door shut, moved to help Anne set up her bed. "Yeah. Number sixty five. The suitors: woman proves her loyalty by only dating those who look like her dead husband."

st The ringtail plopped down on the edge of the beanbag. Dani sat on the other side. "What kinda craziness is that?"

st "You can organize stories. Take folktales and boil them down to their essences. The core to *that* story is number sixty five on the list of, er...folktale essences. A story which proves a wife's faithfulness by how she remembers her husband in every new guy she dates." Dani realized she'd been rambling and smiled apologetically. "Sorry, I studied this in school."

st "Putting numbers to stories?" Anne laughed.

st The otter grinned, "Kind of. We would look at a culture's stories and see how the culture treated them. It would help us trace things back through history. That scale, the numbers, isn't really used anymore, but we all memorized it."

st "You majored in story numberology?"

st Dani laughed. "Well, folkloristics. Part of--"

st "Story numberology." Anne gave a firm nod, then winked to Dani, and they both laughed.

st "Do you tell lots of stories, Anne?"

st The ringtail shook her head. "My name isn't Anne. It's...hm." She made a show of thinking up another, then grinned, "Alex. You can call me Alex."

st Dani tilted her head and frowned, "Well, okay. Going to take me a bit to unlearn 'Anne', then."

st Alex grinned, "It'll do you good. And yeah, we tell stories a lot on the road. True ones. Made up ones. Ones that are a bit of both. It's good to tell stories to friends, and even better to tell them to strangers."

st "How do you figure?"

st "You didn't laugh or anything until I told that one, did you?"

st Dani thought for a moment, then shrugged. "You got me there."

st Anne-- Alex grinned and nodded, "See? It works. Your turn, though."

st "My turn?"

st "Yeah, tell me a story."

st Dani froze. She knew stories. She knew tons of them. Each was stacked on a shelf of its own category, each had strings running from it to a list of motifs, each thoroughly cataloged.

st And all of them suddenly inaccessible.

st "I, uh--"

st Alex shook her head and laughed. "It's tough, don't worry. I'm good at this. Gotta get through the days somehow. It's only...what, eight? Just tell me something about you."

st Dani uncrossed her legs to get comfortable on the beanbag, leaning back against the couch where it was nearest, hips canted over to keep from resting solely on her tail. "About me? Hmm."

st Alex took her cue from the otter and stretched out on the beanbag. Dani felt strange emotions tugging at her. Here was someone she'd --- literally --- brought in from the cold, and now it felt like they were in the middle of a high school sleepover.

st "Doesn't have to be you, I guess." Alex stretched out, then sat up and took her hoodie off, as though that were a serious barrier between her and comfort. Her shirt said 'Ladies is gender neutral'. "Mine wasn't about me. Just it's usually easier to talk about yourself."

st Dani nodded and smoothed her whiskers back thoughtfully, then shrugged. "I got caught stealing, once," she began, and told the story of Miss Weaver and the card catalog.

st Alex looked on thoughtfully, then nodded. "Clearly a three twenty eight."

st Dani snorted. "The treasures of a giant?"

st "Well, okay, I made that up." Alex laughed. "It's not wrong, though, is it? You stole things from Miss Weaver."

st "Usually it's something more important. Something you go out of your way to steal. Treasure and such."

st They both grinned. Alex shrugged, and began a simple grooming of herself, brushing through tan and white fur. It was soft-looking, almost downy, but certainly no protection against the cold. Not that Dani's was any better. "There you were," she said. "Concocting your secret plan to steal organization itself from the very lair of the beast, a treasure to keep for yourself."

st Dani laughed and urged Alex on with a gesture.

st "You saw the giant before you, the symbol of the system, of all things more powerful than wee little Dani. You snuck...uh, not up the beanstalk. You snuck around the counter, and there you saw it. The golden pack of catalog cards. 'From these,' you thought. 'I can rule over all of my toys. Each will have a number.'"

st "I did, too." Dani thumped her tail against the ground. "With an iron fist. I was a dictator."

st It was Alex's turn to laugh. "Alright. And so then you did it. You reached for your goal, and you took it in your hand. You were caught! Poor Dani, at the whim of a giant! Little did the giant know, you'd learn to master all of her organizational powers and unseat her!"

st Dani made as if to buff her claws, "And I did. Though Miss Weaver is still on the Sawtooth Library board here. I see her whenever we do archival work for them."

st "You grew up here?"

st "Yeah. Born here, did my undergrad here, and came back after grad school."

st Alex looked around the apartment, "You went to grad school and you live like this?"

st Dani rolled her eyes. "I probably owe more in student loans than this building is worth."

st "Yeowch."

st "Yeah. Yeowch."

st The chatter continued between the two for another few hours. By the time Dani looked up, it was nearly ten.

st This was a surprising feeling, this talking the hours away. She had gone into the weekend filled with gloom, her mind unable to provide her with anything but static. A noise of delineated things, a sound of overclassification.

st And now here she was, chatting away like a kid again with, of all people, a homeless girl she'd rescued from the cold snap.

st There were problems to be sorted, of course. Dani was pretty sure she trusted Anne/Alex. There was nothing for the ringtail to steal. She could take the TV, which would suck. She could take the DVDs and would probably be doing Dani a favor. This was no *Les Miserables*. Or maybe it was to a fault. If Alex was going to steal anything, Dani would forgive her. What use had she for the things she kept? She would reorganize her life around the loss.

st Either way, they ought to find Alex something a little more permanent. Dani could certainly help with warmer clothing, as she had offered, and she certainly had no qualms in hosting the poor girl longer, if it left her feeling this good by the end of the night. Would it even be okay to ask her to stay?

st Maybe what they had to sort out was how much each of them would get from this.

st They yawned themselves to sleep, that night, and once Alex had dozed off, Dani wafted back into her bedroom. *Tonight, I'll dream of 035.028.000 (person, stranger, important in a positive way).*

st She didn't remember her dreams.
