st Dani's alarm went off too early on Monday. It was the same six AM as every other weekday, but getting up proved harder.

st She silenced the alarm and sat up in bed, groggy. She had a kink in her tail. Not an auspicious start to the week. The cold, the soreness, the weekend.

st It took a few minutes for her brain to unfog enough to remember that Alex --- or was it Anne? --- had claimed her beanbag the night before.

st Well, okay. The cold, the soreness, the weekend, *and* the homeless girl camped out in her living room.

st Dani groaned. She'd not thought this through well enough yesterday. She had work, she couldn't do that *and* help out a homeless girl. She'd either have to call out from work or find a place where Alex to stay. Maybe both.

st The otter levered herself up out of bed, stretching longly and trying to work the kink out of her tail. Tweaked it over the weekend, perhaps, or just slept on it funny. Made it hard to walk without wobbling.

st She tugged her phone from its charger on her desk and swiped a pad across it to unlock the screen.

st Two new voice messages. One from late last night, one from an hour ago.

st "Hi Dani, this is Erin. I got a call from facilities saying that they were having problems with the steam plant. You're usually first in, can you check on things first thing and call out to others if there are any problems in the building? Thanks a million."

st Dani furrowed her brow and skipped to the second message.

st "--all employees and students. There will be an inclement weather closure on Monday the 30th of January. This closure affects all employees and students. There will be an inclement weather closure on--"

st Her furrowed brow turned into an outright frown. Still standing in the middle of her cold room, she pulled up the university website on her phone. Right at the top of the page in bold, red text, an announcement.

st > **Inclement weather closure**  
st > Monday, January 30, 2017
st >
st > On Sunday evening, a boiler in central heating ceased working. The back-up boiler was brought online, but cannot heat all campus buildings to a safe temperature. Crews are working to replace the boiler.  
st > Temperatures have reached -30, stay inside and keep warm."

st "I guess that solves that," Dani mumbled.

st Remembering her guest, she slipped on a loose pair of pants before heading out to the kitchen and living room. Alex was a lump of clothes and blankets on the beanbag, the only visible part of her being the tip of her tail peeking out from beneath two layers of blankets.

st It *was* cold, Dani thought, and checked on her thermostat. She bumped it up a few degrees, wary of the outcome if it got too low. Hot water baseboard heaters were nice and all, but the last thing she wanted was for one of them to freeze and for the pipe to burst.

st She set about making the quietest cup of tea she could manage, waddling around the kitchen as best she could with the ache in her tail. She was normally a coffee drinker, but that'd wake the ringtail in the living room. Tea would do fine, though, if she didn't have to race into work.

st Alex grumbled from beneath the covers at the sound of the water boiling in the electric kettle, but, as far as Dani could tell, kept on sleeping.

st The otter spent the next few hours holed up in her bedroom, sipping her way through a mug of tea. She poked through news and stories on her phone, before pulling down the book of folklore classifications.

st Her life was in disarray, she knew. Alex had thrown a wrench into things, into her neat little life and her neat little apartment. It brushed up against all sorts of weird desires to keep both life and home organized.

st Not that the bassarisk had been a problem. She'd set her backpack down where backpacks go, she'd given Dani her plate when she was done, had used the bathroom once or twice. She had, in fact, not budged from her spot on the beanbag otherwise.

st And yet this all felt like some intrusion.

st Perhaps it was the way in which Dani approached it. Perhaps it wasn't Alex at all, and it was all just on her. She was the one who had taken Alex in. She was the one who was stuck thinking about this. For Alex it was nothing, she could keep clean and to herself. It was Dani who was having a hard time classifying things.

st She realized she was doing the same with her book as she did with her movies. Her eyes scanned over the words in the thin workbook, but none of the text made it further into her mind. She covered each line, recognizing letters, before turning the page.

st *I should just put it up,* she thought, feeling grumpy. *I'm not getting anything out of it. I could take a nap.*

st She shook her head to shake wandering thoughts into a sense of order, and turned back to the index of folklore motifs.

st Maybe she could come up with a story to tell Alex.

st -----

st The silence --- or at least quiet snores --- from the living room slowly morphed into soft rustlings, and then from there to audible yawns and the sound of padding feet heading to the bathroom.

st Dani levered herself quietly out of bed and snuck into the kitchen before Alex could make it back out of the bathroom.

st "Coffee?" Dani asked when Alex stumbled back to the beanbag. The ringtail sat down heavily on the cushion, looking mussed up from her night's sleep.

st "Nngh. Mmhm."

st The otter nodded and flicked a switch on the little countertop espresso machine, then set the grinder to run for two shots worth of coffee grounds. The tea had helped, of course, but she suspected the coffee would help all the more.

st "You're chipper," Alex grumbled.

st Dani nodded. "Been up a few hours already. Dad always used to get us up early for the sunrise. He said it wouldn't rise without us kids. Someone had to be there to see it."

st The otter finished pulling one shot of espresso, and walked it over to the ringtail on the couch. "Let me know if you need milk or anything."

st Alex shook her head, sipped gratefully at the bitter coffee.

st "Anyway, one day we all got sick. One of those bouts of the flu that catches the whole house at once." Dani tamped down the grounds in the portafilter, using the tamp to brush the grounds off the rim. She paused to lick a finger and sweep up a scattering of grounds that had missed the used-grounds container she built the shot over and wound up on the counter, flicking the gritty coffee back into the container.

st "We all slept in to--" She leaned back to look at the clock on the microwave. "Until about ten thirty. We were all so surprised when we saw the sun had risen without us."

st Alex laughed as Dani pulled her own shot. "Oh yeah? And which number is that?"

st Dani leaned back against the counter and laughed, wincing at the strain in her tail and clutching her little demitasse in her paws. "You got me. One hundred fourteen."

st The ringtail held onto her empty cup with one hand and leaned back onto the other, grinning up to the otter. "I'll give your delivery an eight out of ten, but the story needs work. Did you rehearse it?"

st "A little," Dani admitted, ears and whiskers both canted back in embarrassment. "Was it that obvious?"

st "To me, yeah. But I live off stories. You get a feel for truth, lies, and the right mix, you tell enough stories. You can hear when one's being told on the spot."

st "What about mine didn't work?"

st The ringtail shrugged and leaned forward to pass over her cup when the otter held out her paw.  "Your truth-to-lie ratio was good. Lemme guess," she said, tilting her head. "You got up with your dad, but don't have any siblings."

st Dani laughed. "Yeah, that's it. How'd you guess?"

st "The way you talked about your mom last night, about stealing office supplies." Alex shook her head. "It wasn't that, though. Like I said, that was good. The, uh...what's it. How much the story means..."

st "Consequence?"

st "Yeah, it was inconsequential to a good level. You tell a story, and if you're trying to weave one, you don't make it too consequential. You told me a true story last night; those can be consequential. A tale should make you care enough to laugh or cry, but not much more."

st Dani thought for a moment. "When we'd talk about folktales, we'd talk about what tied them to one culture versus another, even if they'd share a common core. That feels pretty consequential."

st "I guess a little." The ringtail shrugged and stood up once more. "But you're not imparting deep wisdom. They're all just stories, still. They gotta be light, inconsequential --- and yours was --- but they also gotta be, um...spontaneous."

st "Extemporaneous, maybe?"

st "That's it. They gotta be on the spot. Yours was just too rehearsed."

st Dani grinned and shrugged, "I'm not sure if I could do that."

st "It's not for everyone. You--" She paused for a moment, thinking before continuing. "You're too organized. Too OCD to pull a story out of thin air like that. Hey, can I grab a shower? I know you're probably sick of me, but I really need one."

st The OCD comment had caught Dani off her guard. She had so many thoughts, countless words, about how she was or wasn't that. She didn't have the *F42* required for *F42*-dom. All of those had disappeared, as they always did at time of need.

st She just nodded and waved Alex into the bathroom.

st -----

st "So, it's gotten down to negative thirty. I know I was going to offer to help you get more layers, but I think it's too cold for even that."

st Alex nodded and kept quiet. She looked as though she were preparing to be kicked out.

st Dani hastened to clarify, "I don't even want to go out to the car. Plus, my tail hurts too bad to do much more than sit around. You alright just staying in until things warm up this afternoon? I can get you to Open Door or another place if you don't want to."

st The relief was writ plain on the ringtail's face. She nodded. "Yeah, that'd be good. I don't want to go out either. Really don't want to go back to Open Door. Can I, uh...can I help out any? I don't have much to pay with, but I can do work or whatever."

st "There's not really much to be done, I don't think." Her expression softened. "You're just welcome to say until things warm up, Alex."

st "Amy."

st Dani blinked.

st "You can call me Amy today." The ringtail grinned.

st "First Anne, then Alex, now Amy?" Dani laughed.

st "A real name holds power, right?"

st The otter thought for a moment, then nodded. "Five hundred, yeah."

st Alex--er, Amy rolled her eyes. "They really did include everything in that catalog, didn't they?"

st Dani nodded as she waddled over to the couch. "Yep. Five hundred is a trickster who will be defeated by someone knowing his true name. Crap," she interrupted herself. "How the hell did I mess up my tail? I don't think I did anything to it yesterday."

st "Well, it *is* big."

st Dani laughed, changing trajectory to the beanbag and laying down on her front. "Yeah, it is. Still, I didn't think I could sprain a tail."

st "Well, doesn't that just make us a pair? I don't have the clothing to go outside, and you can hardly walk."

st "Guess it was good fortune, then."

st "Does your catalog of tales have anything to say about this? Is three hundred and eighty a story about an injured person being stuck with someone who can't go out in the cold?"

st The otter shrugged. "I don't think so, no. And there isn't a three eighty. They're all organized into a hierarchy, and they leave some numbers unassigned so that they can add to them later on."

st Amy grinned. "How do you even know all this?"

st "I went to school for it."

st "And they made you memorize it or something?"

st Dani rested her chin on her folded arms, a motion to conceal some embarrassment. "They didn't make me. I did because it was fun."

st The ringtail stared in disbelief, then motioned for her to continue.

st "I really like organizing things, and--"

st "I could tell."

st Dani smirked, then continued. "--and I like the way things can be categorized while still retaining everything that makes them unique. Like, the five hundred from earlier? That's a vague classification that can be applied to many stories, which are all different from each other."

st "Sorta like putting things in a box, then?"

st "I guess. Or writing them down on a sheet of paper with a specific heading, then putting that sheet in a folder, which is put in another folder. At the very top, you give rules for how to get to what you need."

st Amy looked thoughtful for a moment, then nodded. "Makes sense, then."

st "What does?"

st "Your inability to be, uh...extemporaneous. You can't pull things out of thin air, 'cause you're rifling through a catalog."

st Dani stayed silent.

st "I mean that in the best of ways!"

st Dani shifted over onto her side enough to look at Amy more directly, trying to look as kind as possible. She had no idea how to take this being told that she was uninventive.

st "Well, listen," Amy continued. "You have OCD, right?"

st "I don't know. I've been told I don't."

st "But, like...look at you. Everything about you is based around order, around the need for things to be in their place, all classified."

st "Well, sure," Dani demurred. "But OCD requires anxiety that I don't have. You have to feel anxiety about things that you obsess over, and you have to have the compulsion to fix them at all costs. I don't have those. I just classify things. That's just what I do."

st Amy looked thoroughly sorry for having brought the topic up. All the same, she persevered. "Okay, well, maybe not OCD, but my ma, she told me that there's all these disorders around anxiety, and each has a personality disorder to go with it." Her voice was fast, as though she were rushing to fill a hole she was digging herself into. "Maybe you have that? Obsessive-Compulsive, uh...personality disorder?"

st Dani reached out a paw to rest on Amy's. None of this was too terribly surprising, it was all stuff that made sense. Still, Amy had talked herself into a tizzy. The ringtail looked absolutely panicked. "Maybe," Dani allowed. "What does this version entail?"

st Amy took the hint from Dani's paw on her own. She smiled bashfully and made a show of calming down. "They, well," she straightened up, organizing her thoughts. "They are like the regular dis--er, they're like the regular ones, but without the anxiety. The life is ordered, order is the obsession, but without, uh...without the pain."

st The otter thought it over, spending a few seconds grooming her whiskers back. "I guess that makes sense. It's something that isn't eating me alive, but it's still a big part of me."

st Amy nodded, turning her paw up to let Dani's paw slip into her own, resting the her free paw on top of it. "I really do mean that in the best way."

st Dani laughed and rolled the rest of the way onto her side, letting her aching tail rest against the side of the beanbag, taking some of the weight off. "No, I get that. It really does make sense. I saw someone about it years ago, on an old girlfriend's suggestion."

st Amy tilted her head, though whether at the 'girlfriend' part or the 'seeing someone about chronic neatness' part, she couldn't tell.

st "My doctor said it wasn't OCD, just part of my personality. Not something I felt bad about, something I felt good about. My ex still thought I was crazy, though."

st Amy patted at the otter's paw in her own, then gave it a little pet, brushing fur that was already straight all the straighter. "Can I confess?"

st Dani laughed. "Of course. I'm no priest, though."

st "I didn't think so" Amy laughed. "Anyway, I guess I saw how neat you were, and that's why I've told you so many names. Just add a little disorder to your life."

st "None of them real?"

st "Of course not." The ringtail grinned as mischievously as she could. "I can't tell you that, remember?"

st Dani laughed. "Right. Five hundred."

st "How many of those classifications are there, anyway?"

st The otter started counting mentally, then perked up. "In the bedroom, there's a book on the bed. I was reading it after yesterday. That should have the catalog in it. Go grab that."

st "Uh, me?"

st "Yeah, you." Dani laughed, "My tail hurts too much. I'm laying down and you're sitting. I'm older than you, probably. Just because."
