---
counts:
    characters_real: 1294
    characters_total: 1592
    file: ./posts/tech/how-charming/_posts/2016-12-23-part-3.md
    paragraphs: 6
    type: jekyll
    words: 299
layout: serial-post
previous_in_category:
    title: How Charming - Part 2
    url: /posts/tech/how-charming/2016/12/16/part-2
title: How Charming - Part 3
---

*In the previous entry, we started the process of pulling together our charm, including a lot of configuration values. Some of those were standard charm fare, metadata and configuration values, but some were configuration for the charm layers. We also investigated what layers were and how they're different from hooks. If you haven't read the first two entries, please make sure that you do so, or this one won't make much sense!*

I totally lost track of dates there for a while, and suddenly it's [Christmas eve eve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tibb's_Eve). It's not so much that I don't really celebrate Christmas, though I don't, or that I spend most of my days inside, facing only a text editor, though I do. Maybe I'm just not observant, or maybe it's because, this year, I had to run out to Portland for a thing, but suddenly it's Friday, and Christmas is Sunday, and everything's a giant mess.

As is Honeycomb. I had a milestone I was supposed to meet on Monday, and I missed that by a few tasks, unfortunately. It was a combination of burnout and freaking out over the Portland trip. That's also why today's article hasn't shown up sooner!

Also, writing layered charms is weird as heck, for me. This project is as much me learning how to write them as it is explaining how to do so. We relied on writing just hook-based charms for so long that it's difficult to get up to speed with this new style and leave behind so much of what I learned. The docs and tooling are still being written, too, so I find myself stumbling along blind alleys quite often.

Well, come stumble with me as we work through the next part of the charm: fetching our source and setting some configuration values.

-----
