%\includegraphics[width=4.88542in,height=7.32813in]{media/image5.png}

\chapter*{Wild Thing}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Wild Thing}
\markboth{Wild Thing}{Dirt Coyote}

I shouldn't have been here at this party. This marble fox doesn't fit in
and everyone knows it. There's a group of guys just standing next to me,
joking and laughing their asses off loudly. It's embarrassing that I'm
so close, and yet, galaxies away from the conversation.

The room gradually shifts in red, orange, blue, yellow, and green
lights. Back and forth, almost dizzying me as I stand around stupid with
a cup in my paws. I don't know anyone here and my invite was done out of
pity. I'd just been sitting in the cafeteria at my college when a hare
mistook me for someone else and felt too ashamed to rescind the
invitation.

But, I put on some nice clothes, at least, what I think is nice: Jeans
and a white cargo shirt. I'm just glad I took out my fucking pocket
protector before getting here. Fuck, I'm so lame. Why did I even come
here if I was just gonna be sipping booze and standing alone with my
tail curled around my waist.

I scan the room, thinking it might be my time to thank the host and get
back to my place in the dorms. There's a stack of anime DVDs waiting for
me that I've only watched a hundred times before. Watching them live
their insane lives is more than enough adventure for me.

That's when I notice him.

Another marble fox standing across the room staring at me. His eyes are
piercing, the same crystal blue eyes that I have, just resting on me and
me alone. At least, I think so. He could be eyeing me, waiting for me to
move away from the drink table to get his own.

I shift a little to the side, his gaze following and I know for certain
it's me he's looking at. Even though there's a wolf by his side, clearly
talking to him as he sloshes a drink back and forth, he's more
interested in me. A smirk is stuck to his muzzle and it's intimidating.
He's got on a loose fitting tank top that's barely hanging off his
shoulders. It's so long, covering most of his khaki shorts, that it
could be described as ill-fitting if he wasn't pulling it off so well.

What sticks out the most is the flower crown on his head. I don't
recognize the pedals, and they seem too large to be real. They shift
colors with the lights of the room, just like the white and gray on his
muzzle. A dazed look hangs in his eyes as he stares at me, and like the
rest of his demeanor, he just seems so laid back and chill.

Like a Wild Thing.

His look becomes a little oppressive and I shift uncomfortably
underneath it. I'm ready to just leave, scamper away from this fox that
looks too cool to be interested in me, but wait! The fox says something
to the wolf, dismissing himself casually as he starts towards me.

I can't think of a reason why. My glasses feel crooked on my muzzle and
I adjust them like the dork I am. Trying to recover, I bring the drink
in my paw up to my muzzle, and take a

sip only for most of it to dribble over my chin. Why can't I do anything
cool?

I brush the liquid off with the back of my wrist, probably looking worse
than before but the Wild Thing just chuckles. He's sleek, wirey, flowing
between the other guests like wind. His fur pattern is similar to mine,
very close as it glows red, orange, blue, yellow, and green with the
shifting lights.

``Hi,'' I let out in a whisper, and then realizing he probably can't hear
me, I say too loud, ``Hello!''

He keeps that same smirk and says back, just loud enough, ``Hey there.''

Trying at a conversation, I point up at his crown and say, "I like your
flowers."

The Wild Thing nods politely and softly replies, ``I had fun making it.''

There's a pause as his gaze moves from mine for the first time, taking a
second to eye me up and down. I feel underdressed, but he seems to like
what he's looking at. He's a little close, closer than I'm used to, but
I can't get my legs to move back. With my free paw, I brush my tail
around my waist to relax until it unwinds behind me.

The Wild Thing steps beside to the drink table and grabs a cup. Despite
all the attention flustering me a second ago, his immediate dismissal of
me feels empty. He's just fixing himself a cocktail, not turning to me.
It's at that moment that I

realize, I'm the one staring at him now and feel a bit abashed. I
should've known he wasn't interested in me.

A sudden flash of embarrassment and anger in myself strafed through my
core and I decided it was time to leave. Just as my foot made the first
step towards the door, a paw grabs hold of my arm. I turned to see the
Wild Thing holding me while tipping the cup into his muzzle, guzzling
the liquid down audibly.

I let him hold me, his relaxed grip not too forceful, until he was
finished and sat the drink down onto the table. "If you wanna leave, I
know someplace we can go," he says with alcohol fumes cascading off his
breath, wrinkling my nose.

His words are so confident, without any hesitation or thought. He lets
go of me and flicks his head to the side towards a hallway. I peer over
him, down the dark passage he wants to lead me and then back to the
front door that'll take me to safety. But my muzzle is drawn back to the
Wild Thing.

He's so handsome, and though the other marble fox looks similar to me,
he's so much more. I don't just want to be with him. I want to be him,
and I want to gain a fraction of what he has just through osmosis. So,
trying to imitate his coolness, I say, ``Sure.''

Without another word, he turns to the hallway and walks away. I'm left
standing for a second, and only with the swish of his thick flowing
tail, do I realize I'm supposed to be following. I don't even set down
my drink, trying to catch up to him in large steps.

While he ambles through the bodies, men and women my age

flirting with each other carelessly, I'm left awkwardly stumbling
between them. An \emph{Oops, I'm Sorry} here and an \emph{Excuse Me,
Pardon Me} there, I manage to just barely follow behind. It feels like
there's eyes on me, not just judging my clumsiness. My head gets the
better of me and I hear voices questioning how I was the one who the
Wild Thing approached.

He's so out of my league, and yet, I'm the one he wants. I know, because
a single eye turns back to make sure I'm following. He doesn't take the
first door, like he knows where he's going. I think he might live here.
Like he just plucked his prey from the crowd and was dragging it to his
den. I don't mind. I'd gladly be his, if he had me.

It's the third room before he grabs the handle and twists, the door
opening silently as his footsteps. There's no lights, but the glim glow
of the moon illuminates the room. He turns, making sure I followed, and
I feel a little comfort that seems so eager I stayed with him. I step
with him inside and he doesn't hesitate to pull me into a kiss.

Both of his paws are on the collar of my shirt, stretching it as he
forces his lips against mine. His claws tear at the fabric, and I'm
worried for a second that he might just shred my clothes rather than let
me take them off. My paws straddle his sides, holding him to steady
myself as he pulls us towards a bed.

The Wild Thing sure lives up to the name I've

given him, because he is after me like a beast. He lets go of my shirt
just to slide a paw up underneath it and start yanking it off of me.
Even as the kiss breaks momentarily to pull it over my head, he is
relentlessly back to nibbling my lip.

My huffs are hard like his, our breath mixing as we tangle paws around
each other. I fling his shirt to the side, my pants come off and are
kicked aimlessly away. I've never done this before, but my instincts
take over. It's not long before I'm down to my tighty whities and he's
wearing nothing but what god gave him. And his flower crown, of course

I'm pushed backward, a worried yipe escapes my muzzle fearing I'm about
to hit the floor. The soft squeak of a mattress underneath me breaks my
fall and I'm left scrambling to grab the sheets. I try to hoist myself
back up, but a paw lands on my chest and holds me down. I'm worried for
a second this might be too rough, but the claws tracing sensually
underneath the fur on my belly tells me it's exactly as rough as I'd
ever wanted it. Just fast!

A warm wet tongue wraps around my length, and I lean my head back deep
into the comforter. My teeth are grit, and it's all I can do to keep
myself from moaning out loudly over the noise of the party. His lips
draw back and forth against my cock and the warm breath of his own moans
wash over me. One paw stays on my stomach, digging in lines perfectly
over my sensitive spots. The other is handling my balls, rolling them
around and squeezing them gently between his fingers.

He's getting me close, and it's happening too fast. I can feel him
edging me towards the point of no return without even taking me in his
muzzle. A hot embarrassment is flooding over my mind, not sure how to
tell him to slow down or stop. Though, if I'm being honest. I
desperately don't want him to slow or stop anything. Before I can
though, he pulls his lips off my cock and stands to his feet.

``You should be wet enough now,'' he says, extending a paw for me. I'm not
sure what he's talking about and I stare up at him dumbly, my brain
still floating in my head.

He shakes his outstretched paw again, and I blink before taking it. I'm
off the bed and he takes my spot, crawling up on all fours and holding
his tail up with a paw. His backside is fully presented to me, and I
realize now what I'm supposed to be doing.

``Are you sure?'' I ask, already crawling up behind him.

He only gives a nod and flicks his tail from right to left. I touch the
tip of my prick against his hole, the warmth sending shivers up my
spine. With only my spit and pre for lube, I lean forward and enter him.
A soft purr lets me know that I'm slick enough to be pleasurable.

One paw goes on his back and the other grabs his hips as I inch closer
to him. My knees drag on the sheets. I can barely see him, but I don't
need to. Just need to feel him; feel his hole wrapping around my cock as
I push into him.

There's a moan of pleasure, and I'm not sure if it's me or him. Our
pants and huffs become one, just over the slapping sound of my thrusts.
I instinctively lean over him, fucking his ass doggy style. My paw wraps
around his length and I begin pumping him to my thrusts.

Each pull and push sends waves of serotonin through my brain.

His cock is slick in my grip, pre stickying my paw pads and the fur
between my fingers. I dip my muzzle low, nibbling against the other
marble fox's nape. A sense of pride envelopes me as I realize I, me
alone, am the one taming this Wild Thing underneath.

My climax is quickly approaching, and I know his is too. He's leaking
like a hose, pre covering my fur and the bed. I tighten my paw around
his shaft, pumping him faster as I get close to shooting inside him. He
calls out something in his moans, and I think it's my name, though I'm
sure I didn't tell him that. His reward is my teeth sinking into the fur
at the back of his neck. I feel his cock spurting just as I hit the
point of no return.

I knock my knot against him, once, twice, three times, but the spit
isn't enough to push past his ring. It doesn't matter. My eyes squeeze
tight, and I orgasm right into the other fox's insides. Cum shoots deep
into him, lining his rectum with my seed.

He's moaning loudly, even with me biting down hard (or because). My paw
loosens, and I slump over him. The Wild Thing holds me up on his back as
my balls empty into him. There's a sureness that I filled him up so
much, my seed is leaking out his backside.

Carefully, he lowers himself until he's on his belly, and I let go of
him just as my paw sinks into the puddle he's made. I pull out of him,
rolling over onto the bed and taking my paw with me. My paw pulls free
from underneath him, wiping most of his spunk onto the sheets and his
fur.

With my back on the bed, I stare up to the ceiling and wonder just who I
am. Maybe it's the afterglow settling in my head, but I'm feeling
particularly proud of myself. I'd never imagined I could just follow a
stranger into bed and have sex with him. I'd never so much as given a

handjob before.

Part of me wants to ask him if it was as good for him as it was for me,
but that sounds stupid. Still, I should at least say something, and the
only thing that comes to mind is, ``That was amazing.'' and when I think
about it, it's not the dumbest thing I'd ever said.

He hasn't said anything back. I observe my surroundings, seeing a lamp
on a nightstand next to me and flicking it on. And that's when I notice
it. He's laying on his side, turned away from me and I see the pattern
on his back. His marble fur, gray, white, auburn, orange, and red, is so
similar to mine. And there is this sun kissed patch of fur on his
shoulder that is too familiar.

Way too fucking familiar.

My heart sinks in my chest, and I realize that he's way too like me. I
just fucked my cousin. Of course, an idiot like me would
abso-fucking-lutely accidently lose his virginity to his cousin. The
taboo instantly washes over me, and dread fills my soul. Before I can
think of what to do next, possibly sneak off, if not run, grab my
clothes and get the fuck out of here, he says patiently, "I'm not your
cousin."

He's not looking at me, still turned away. If he's not my cousin,
then--

``I'm not a lost twin brother either.''

Is he?

"And I'm not reading your mind. Jeez, would you just settle down for a
second," he says dismissively.

With a nervous smile on my muzzle, I say anyways, "If you're not reading
my mind, you're not making a good case for yourself."

That's when he turns over to face me, and I finally see it. I see me.
It's actually me! He's got a sly smirk slapped on his face, just as my
muzzle is twisting into a frown. This cannot be happening.

``Yeah, I'm you. Just a little older,'' he says, reassuringly.

I study him, my eyes going down to his body. He can't be me. Not only is
he missing my glasses, but he's just too perfect to be me, too calm and
collected. Too amazing. He's the Wild Thing, and I'm--well, I'm just
me.

"If you're who you say you are, then you'll be able to answer something
I'd only know," I say, trying to think through my thoughts.

I find it; a memory that's only true to me. A little marble fox comes to
mind, and I see him gathering dirt and worms to put in his elementary
school's teacher purse. I was such a miscreant and I'm about ready to
ask him to repeat the story, but his muzzle is pulling back wider than
it has before. And I see it, in his eyes, the reflection of my own
muzzle, pulling back at the thought of the memory.

We're reliving it together.

``How?'' I ask, not needing any proof. Just answers.

Out of nowhere, he holds out his paw for me and I see it sitting on his
pads. It's a multicolored pill, shimmering in the dark of the room. He's
offering it to me, and I know he wants me to take it. Before I reach
out, I've got only one more question:

``Is it safe?''

He gives me a wink, and says, ``It's worth it.''

I pluck it from his paw and hold it to my eye. It radiates in red,
orange, blue, yellow, and green along with every color in-between. The
Wild Thing gets comfortable, resting his head on his paw patiently. His
smug look tells me he knows what I'm going to do next, and so I take the
date with destiny, and pluck it in my maw.

It doesn't taste like anything, but it does hum on my tongue. There's a
slight buzz of electricity or something, and I hesitate to swallow. I
consciously have to will myself to get it down, and I feel it roll
against my throat. Even sitting at the bottom of my stomach, I can still
fill it inside me.

``Well?'' I ask, expecting something to have happened by

now.

The Wild Thing chuckles and says, ``Oh right.'' Then, faster than I could
have anticipated, he snatches the glasses off the bridge of my muzzle.
``I wanted these back.''

``Hey!'' I exclaim, ready to take them off his face. Just as my arm
reaches out to grab them, I watch in horror as my paw disintegrates. I
stare down at where my arm used to be, jaw trembling. I turn back up to
him, that smug look annoying the shit out of me, and say the only thing
that comes to mind, ``oh, you mother fucker--''

Reality folds in on itself, like a book being slapped shut an inch in
front of my nose. It becomes apparent that my body is no longer my
vessel. I've been split into a billion atoms and the only thing that
exists of me is my consciousness. I clutch desperately at anything, but
with no arms and no clue of what to do, I'm just thrown about between
time and space.

My thoughts are the only thing that are held together, but even thinking
feels like walking miles between ideas. Time itself is lost on me as my
consciousness flings through the void I exist in. I try hard, trying to
remember what I am or was or will be, putting myself back together like
scooping sand on a beach.

And all at once, I find a foothold. I am born. My name is Thomas
Forewind. My father, a serf, kisses me on the forehead as he lays eyes
on me the first time. I'm a boy, a wolf cub, and I tend the fields with
my family. I grow into quite the rambunctious teen.

With my friends, I dance at the slightest start of a beat and when I
sing, it's louder than anyone

else. Anything to impress the barmaids and my friends. It's joyous for a
time, and I couldn't imagine anything better than this.

There's a raid and in the span of a few hours, all of my friends and
family are gone. As smoke rises from smoldering buildings, I am left
orphaned, angry, and hollowed. I am asked to fight for my kingdom
against these raiding neighbors, and I do so gladly.

With my shield wrapped around my arm, I clash against a leopard coming
at me. He's an older man, maybe a veteran and he's confident. He swings
his sword at me with precise thrusts, but I knock his blows away easily.
I am good at this. He dies by the swipe of my blade, and I look for the
next opponent.

Ten more come at me, one after the other, and there's ten corpses I'm
left walking away from. I'm reveling in my prowess. Who'd have thought I
could be a killer? I approach a fox, a boy like me. He's terrified,
already seeing what I can do. The other teen throws down his sword in
surrender, stumbling backwards as I approach. All I do is smile,
thinking this one would be easiest.

I raise my sword, ready to strike him on the ground, but I recognize the
fear on the vulpine's muzzle. It looks like...me? I realize just what
I've become. I don't want to be this! I'm not Thomas Forewind! I am...I
was something else. This doesn't make sense, and reality falls apart
again. Thomas Forewind disappears on the battlefield, and is labeled a
disserter, never to be seen or heard of again.

I am tossed again in the ocean, and I feel my thoughts swimming against
a current. My consciousness is thrown about, and I look for something to
stand on. But without a body or any physical manifestation, it's like
trying to stand on the waves itself.

I'm a skunk now. My parents name me Julia after my grandmother. I like
helping people, and I'm gonna be a doctor someday. The path is so clear
to me, all throughout highschool and college, and I don't waver the
slightest. They put me in the ER, and I'm ready to save some lives.

But a gas leak across town causes an explosion on my first night.
There's too many people coming in all at once, and the hospital is
immediately overwhelmed. We're short beds, short staff, and I am made to
pick who I can treat and who I can't.

A bull, barely recognizable under his singed fur, grabs my arm and begs
me to help him. I can barely understand him over the dozens of screams
filling the hall. This isn't right. It comes rushing back to me, and I
wish it wasn't happening right now when I'm needed most. I'm not a
doctor. I can't save him. I can't save anyone. The last thing I see
before I'm swallowed back into oblivion is the bull's eyes staring
blankly into nothing.

The only thing left of Julia is an unsolved mystery tv special of a
doctor vanishing in the middle of an ER.

Again, I'm caught between the planes of reality. I feel it now though.
It's not an ocean of water, but the area beneath the zero-point of space
itself. The sea of gluons pass me back and forth like dough in the
fingers of a baker. They rise up like bubbles to the surface, and I
follow them once more to existence.

When I am little, I give myself the name Wynn. My parents think this
little non-binary bear cub is going through a phase, but it sticks all
throughout my life, and they learn to

accept it. I am lucky. It's when I'm in the junior ranger program that I
learn my first crush early: Nature.

I love it more than anything and it's enough to satisfy my needs. In the
trees, the flowers, the red, orange, blue, yellow, and green of its
body, do I know it cares for me as well. There's no man or woman for me.
Its love is unrelenting and a hundred times more than what I or anyone
else could ever express.

My first and last job is a park ranger, sworn to preserve nature's
beauty for future generations.Though the national park program throws me
all over the country, I finally settle on a green valley where the sun
sets right at the end of a canyon. I take pride in my work, and even
when I'm pushed into retirement, I stay closeby.

I take one last hike up the mountains, forcing my bones to make this
final trek. There's a boulder I'm able to climb up, and I rest with my
legs dangling over the edge. Life's been good to me, and there's no
other way I would have done this. With my finishing breath, I let out a
sigh and give myself back to the ether. Wynn disappears just as the sun
sets.

I am once more.

And it's me this time.

I'm sitting atop of the void, floating as mere consciousness in space.
The sun's warmth, even a dozen million miles away, wraps my existence in
a blanket. With a level head, I see my atoms scattered through the whole
of the universe.

Like a child with building blocks, I put myself back together in the
recess of space. I admit, it takes me a little longer than I wanted:
just a few decades of pulling piece by piece to me and stacking them on
top of one another. When I get to my eyes, I can see the slight
astigmatism and choose to leave it, putting each part of myself back
together the way it was until I can see again.

As a marble fox floating in nothingness, I ponder what I've done and
what I shall do next. There's a momentary flash of guilt that bubbles
up. Thomas, Julia, and Wynn were all created because I couldn't find
control and they lived real lives with real people, only for me to have
pulled them from existence.

I'd wished the Wild Thing would have warned me, but I worry if that
would've changed my decision. Instead, I have to live with and as them,
taking their memories and their feelings along for the rest of my
journey. But I remember me too, and I remember I had my own ambitions to
fulfill.

And like a dork, the first thing I think of is to see a black hole. I'd
always been fascinated with sci-fi, and imagined what it'd be like to
witness one. Now, as what I've become, there's nothing holding me back.
I say goodbye to my sun, giving it a small wave, before turning my
attention to the galaxies beyond my own, and push myself forward.

Space and light become a blur, and I'm shot a thousand light-years
across the universe until I see the black hole I want. I approach it,
moving through the void as easy as swimming through a pool. Planets and
stars wizz past until I'm safely in viewing range of Messier-87.

It's aweing at first. I can see the

acceleration disk burning brighter than anything I'd ever imagined. The
raw destruction and power holds me for a few hours, but I'll tell you
this: You'd not believe how fast you'd go from, ``Wow, a black hole'' to
``Okay, black holes are kinda boring.''

I clap my paws on my sides, rolling my shoulders awkwardly. Part of me
feels like I need to excuse myself to be polite, but it's just a black
hole. It doesn't really care how entertaining it has to be. So, I point
myself to another direction, wave awkwardly anyways, and I find a space
bar out a few thousand years in the future, and manifest myself inside.

They don't actually call it a space bar. It's just a bar that happens to
be floating in space called Rico's dive and dine. Freighters stop at it
to refuel and to relax between asteroid belts and planets. There's a
small crowd tonight, and all stop and stare at the naked marble fox
standing in the center of the room.

Oops, forgot to put together my clothes. My presence shocks some in the
crowd, but a boar in a denim jacket says, "Someone's been going through
Sally's personal stash again." Everyone laughs, and the big man stands
from his seat at the bar to approach me.

For as large as he is, he doesn't seem to be mad nor does he try to
intimidate me in any way; just holds up a paw and asks me if I'm
alright. I flick my tail over my privates and nod sheepishly, the
attention a little too much. He asks what I'm on, high or drunk, and I
chuckle and say I'm sober. Just forgot my clothes.

Then he looks towards the entrance, trying to see if I came in with
anyone. He asks me which spaceship I'm piloting or where my crew was,
and I shake my head. I say, ``I am my own vessel,'' because not only is
that the truth, but it sounds pretty badass.

That just gets another roar of laughter and they find me a table to sit
at. A few come and ask me questions, but there's not many answers I can
provide. I just wanted to be here and I showed up. The freight drivers
manage to wrangle together some clothes for me, and now I'm wearing the
loose fitting tank top and cargo shorts the Wild Thing was wearing.
Destiny is unfolding in front of me.

Feeling confident, I make conversation with the crowd and learn about
their world. They pass me drinks as I explain my journey to get here,
and everyone in the bar is invested. I think about my time as Thomas,
the medieval wolf, and I remember him at a tavern surrounded as such.

With the alcohol in my system, I think back at a song Thomas sang that
really riled the crowd. I thump my glass and stomp my foot, setting the
beat while starting the first verse. The men and women follow along,
clapping their hands and cheering loud as I jump on the bar and start
prancing around in my song.

The whole crowd sings along to my chorus and my heart is filled with
their voices. At the end, I repeat the last lines alone and am met with
an applause so loud, it shakes the entire station. Why didn't anyone
tell me it could be this fun being the center of attention?

The bar settles down and I turn to small conversation with the patrons.
I feel Thomas in me, no longer empty and angry; no longer the killer I
imagined him to be. He's proud, but it's not him. It's me. I'm Thomas,
Julia, Wynn, and the pride I feel isn't for someone else. It's for
myself.

That warmth I

feel inside is too much, the energy pulsating in me needing release. I
hug the boar, thanking everyone for the generosity and kindness, and
then turn to the universe and find a spot to land.

It's back on earth. I'm on my back, the ground warm, and the desert's
night air cooling my fur. I lay there, appreciating the clear sky above.
I can see all the stars and galaxies millions of light-years away, and
peek at them like looking through a telescope.

There's two neutron stars colliding there. Over there, there's a couple
of aliens performing a form of a wedding with hundreds of guests
surrounding them. All around is planets and stars and civilizations, all
mine to explore. But a hollowed metal thud of something being kicked
catches my attention.

``We're stranded!'' a voice cries out.

I lift up, turning my attention away from the space above and to my
surroundings. There's a van sitting at the side of a road, and a group
of otters are leaning against it. One's got a blunt in his muzzle,
taking a hit of it before passing it to another.

``Things will work out,'' an otter says nonchalantly.

A girl between the two boys throws up her arms and asks, ``How?''

That's my cue.

``Howdy!'' I call out, walking towards them while brushing the dirt off my
back and fur.

All three jump, but I don't change my gate. They're staring at me
curiously, the tallest otter shifting left and right down the road.
There's nothing for miles and miles. I can read his muzzle, and explain,
``I just happened to land here.''

They shuffle nervously, afraid of me, though all three are taller and
bigger. The one holding the blunt cautiously reaches his paw forward,
extending a roach for me to take. I've never done pot before, but it
seems rude to refuse the offer.

I take it, inhaling little puffs before coughing my lungs out in front
of the three. They laugh at that, and quickly introductions are made.
Their names are Damian, Ross, and Tiara, and their van gave out between
concerts. Smoke is still pouring out the top and I offer to take a look.

Careful with the hood, I pop it open and poke my head inside. I'm not an
expert at cars, but I think I know the problem. Sensing the vehicle and
seeing through its design, I can almost feel where the radiator is
cracked. It's like an itch on my skin, and I mend it closed with my will
until it is whole again.

The otters can't see what I'm doing, but I can feel the car heal itself.
Then I draw from the air, filling the tank with water, and in an
instant, the insides feel new again. I close the hood and smile at the
group, a sense of relief washing over me. All is right.

I clap my paws together and say, ``That should do it.''

Tiara, ever the skeptic, laughs and says, ``You didn't do anything.''

I shrug, not needing her to understand. ``Where we headed?'' I ask
casually.

Damian, the tallest otter, gets into the front seat and turns the
ignition. The car comes back to life, and he lets out a gasp, "Well,
shit." He stares at the panels, squinting as he notices the vans running
better than it ever had before. Again, I shrug.

Ross, slapping a paw to my back, takes a hit and when he exhales, he
says, ``And the universe provides.''

So I had.

I learn that I've landed in the middle of the 80's this time. We spend
months on the road, traveling between venues and concerts and bars.
Sometimes we're there to play a gig, and sometimes we're there to watch.
All these bands I only knew from the radio were now playing live in
front of me, testing their sounds.

Some are met with roaring crowds, screaming for more. Others are booed
and mocked, the music not appreciated at the time. I recognize some of
the ones that would later be hits, sleepers that just needed the right
moment. It was still good to listen to them in their raw

impact.

It is with Tiara that I learn how to braid flowers into a crown. She
teaches me, her way of explaining she likes me. Despite that, it's Ross
who is my first kiss amongst the three. He sneaks it in after
shotgunning me with a breath of weed, our lips too close and our
attraction too strong not to finish closing the gap.

We make out in our hotel room, one of the few times we ever get one.
Tiara and Damian are out at the bar, but me and Ross had opted to stay
in for the night. I'm glad, because I've wanted this for a while.

When he breaks from the kiss, he says, "I'm sorry. I guess I'm pretty
high." He turns his head away bashfully, looking to get up off the bed.
I don't let him, holding onto his paw and keeping him there. Then I
steal his blunt from him, placing it on an ashtray and give him a kiss
on his neck.

He shudders underneath me, my teeth sinking softly into his fur. I hear
him drag his claws on the sheets, muttering moans. Our clothes come off
until we're down to our underwear. He's a little unsure of himself, but
I know well enough for the both of us.

``Let's start slow,'' I say, and he nods up and down.

There's a little pudge over his front that I trace a claw through, and
he likes that. He's careful when he touches me back, not wanting to move
too fast. His fingers run through the fur on my chest, and I moan to let
him know it feels good.

His cock tents up his boxers, and I dare a touch. I put my index finger
to the tip, stroking it up and down over the fabric. It twitches and a
bead of pre drips through to sticky my paw pads. He lets out a soothing
purr as I pull back the underwear until his cock slips through the slit.

While I'm playing with his cock, he's more invested in my nipples. He
keeps making a circular motion around them, every few seconds giving one
a gentle pinch before moving onto the next. Then he dips his muzzle down
and starts nibbling on me between his teeth.

The sensations are so amazing and my cock feels restrained in my
underwear. I pull my briefs down, letting my cock hang out, pre
dribbling freely along my shaft. Ross looks down, sees my cock, and
cautiously wraps his paw around it, squeezing me at my knot.

I huff, grabbing hold of his own stiff member to give him a squeeze as
well. Side by side on the bed, we jerk each other off. Together, we
pant, only silenced when we're nibbling and pecking each other between
our strokes. As I'm getting close, I rest my nose into his neck,
breathing in his scent sharply.

He's first to cum, spraying a line of jizz across his chest and belly. I
don't last a second longer after, and I am showered in my own spunk as
well. Together, we fall back onto the bed and nuzzle in our afterglow.
We stay there for a while, and I cuddle up against his side.

``I've never done that with another guy before,'' he admits.

I silence him with another kiss, reassuring him with my love. He feels
safe beside me, and Ross doesn't even flinch when the door to our hotel
opens up. Damian and Tiara slip in, pausing for a second when they see
us spent on the bed together.

Even though we're in our underwear, we're still covered in our cum and
it's pretty obvious what we just did. Tiara's muzzle turns, but all she
has to add is, ``Boys.''

Tiara's jealousy lasts maybe a week at most, before I catch her alone
with a crown I braided just for her. Damian, ever the most relaxed of
the three. goes with the flow, not denying the inevitable before we're
all pulled into a foursome almost every night on the road. It seemed
like they only needed me to bridge their sexual frustrations.

It's about a year down the line that I'm laying over Damian's chest,
naked and panting in the back of their van. Tiara is sliding off of my
spent cock, and she turns to curl against my belly. Ross is sleepy eyed
in his afterglow, his cum still fresh on my breath.

I smile at all of them, my first true friends. That warm glow fills me
again, and even though I'm strong enough now to extinguish it, I know
it's my time. There's a vast universe out for me to explore, and this is
just a fraction of what I can experience. It's left an itch under my
fur, and though I'll miss them greatly, they'll be fine without me.

``I love you all, \emph{so much},'' I say, and I stress that last bit just
so they understand it. There's a small hope that one of them might
recognize what I'm saying and tell me to stay. If they'd ask, I know I'd
never have the willpower to leave. All they do is chuckle, and pass me
love yous as well. Carefully, I stroke them all in the back of the van,
trying to hold onto the touch of their fur. It's important that I
remember this and find a place in my heart to cherish it forever.

And then I'm gone.

For a while, I travel here and there. Sometimes earth, most times not.
Sometimes with friends and lovers, and some eons I'm left in quiet
solidarity to explore the stretches of the universe. It's only when I
come back to Messier-87, do I remember something important.

I remember that awkward wave I gave it centuries ago, remember how this
all started and see myself so young and new. I've got business to do and
I need to get back to that party. But first, I've got to pick something
up. Something that isn't mine.

Again, I give an awkward wave to the black hole, feeling our time was
short, and again, it doesn't have to impress me. It's a freakin black
hole. It couldn't give a shit.

Then I find myself far into the future. I see a gas giant orbited by a
thousand railguns. Hiding in the planet's ring is a top secret station.
A research facility where they're developing the pill I need to give to
myself. There's a room where it's being held in and I can't just
manifest into it. They've shielded it from me, or whatever threat they
perceived I might have been, keeping me from stealing what they've
worked so hard to achieve.

Sure I could spend a millenia researching it on my own, but that's not
how it went down or how it will go down. Oh, don't think less of me for
being a thief. They're Nazis. Space Nazis! Yeah, that's right, they come
back and this thing they've created is to ensure their dominance over
the universe. I can't let them have it.

I will myself into the station, standing outside a hallway alone. But
I'm not alone. Time stretches in front of me, and I see the few infinite
versions of me standing in front of the door. I am seeing every future
of me making the decision that'll change all of time.

I watch as each version turns back to greet the one behind. Three ahead,
the marble fox goes for a wave. Two, the next one gives its me a sly
smile. The one directly in front of me turns back, and I recognize that
mother fucker anywhere. He gives me a wink, and there's no hard feelings
between us. I turn back, seeing a couple infinite marble foxes standing
in a row. With confidence, I give mine a thumbs up. In turn, that one
shows me up by giving his me a double thumbs up.

He's the fun one, I can tell.

Then I look forward and see that all the me's have turned their heads to
the right. I follow suit, glancing into a passage of time beside me. It
is there, I see a road that has never been taken, but exists all the
same. It's a reality where I don't get my paws on that pill. An
existence so dark and bleak, both in past, present, and future, that it
proves one thing certain: I always stop them. Every time.

The me's collapse into one and I push forward on the

double doors leading into a hallway in the research station. There are
lizards of all sorts, each dawning white lab coats and visors. They're
scrambling, the time of their ascension dawning, and none of them look
up from their tablets and notes to notice a fox wearing a tank top just
waltzing in.

I am fast and small, walking behind and between the men and women. At
some points, I pause, waiting for a group to pass and others, I hurry
quickly. My timing is perfect, because it has to be. It's almost crazy
to think, with all the railguns and high tech sensors and the room I
cannot penetrate, not a one thought to lock the front door.

Ahead of me, there's a metal corridor sealing with lights flashing
above. There's a tall komodo dragon walking with a couple armed guards
at either of his side. He's moving with a sense of authority, chest out,
shoulders straight, and his head tilting back so no one could be at eye
level with him. Even amongst his own kind, he thinks himself above
everyone else.

I get close behind the dictator, the guards stopping just at the door
and taking either side of it. They turn and face away from the door, but
their movements are so formal that neither even notices me walking just
underneath their line of sight.

I stop in the room, pulling my tail forward just as the metal door
behind me is sealed shut. The komodo dragon walks to a table in the
center of the room, and I see the pill, shimmering in red, orange, blue,
yellow, and green, along with every color in-between.

He steps around the table, getting into a position that I think he
imagines to be more dignified or something. Just before he gets to his
moment of triumph, he notices me across from him. He stares for a
minute, blinking a couple times as if I might be something

caught in his eye.

The tyrant looks around, like as if I were a prank his subjects were
playing on him, and at any second they'd come bursting in saying
surprise! No one is coming out, and so he asks in his final question,
``Vhat iz dis?''

I raise my paw, feeling energy coursing through me before I release it
out directly into his chest. In a flash, the komodo dragon is nothing
but a spray of blood and ash against the wall he was formerly standing
in front of. I'm a little stunned-- no, a lot, because I wasn't
expecting that to happen at all.

In my head, I pictured him crashing into the wall and falling
unconscious. Then I'd take the pill and he would wake up, shaking a fist
in anger as I foil his plans for galaxy domination. Nope, he is very
very dead, and I probably should have tested my powers before this
point.

Oh well. If anything, that was a freebie.

I snatch the pill off the table, clutching it in my paw and squeezing it
tightly. Unlike the fascists, I know this is too valuable to leave
somewhere it can be stolen. Instead, I place it deep into a fold between
time and space, ever to be locked away until I need it once more.

My work here done, I look out towards earth, willing myself to sail back
home. With a thud, I smack muzzle first into a wall in the room instead.
I'd forgotten that this is the one place I can't travel through. That
was embarrassing. Even as a demigod, I can't help but look like a
massive dork.

With a sigh, I walk back to the sealed door and give it a knock in
succession to a tune I remember. It takes a second before the metal room
opens up and the two guards greet me in shock. I take a step out of the
room right between the two men. They both raise their guns at the same
time, ready to empty their clips inside of me, but I'm already gone, and
they only end up eliminating each other and any proof of my existence.

Invisible, atop of a railgun is where I place myself after. I sit there,
watching their society from afar. They conclude that their experiment
was a failure and never attempt to recreate it again. For as strong of a
society they were, all that talk of master species and unity falls apart
with their charismatic dictator gone.

Quickly, even before they finish cleaning off the bloody wall of their
once great leader, factions are being made. Arguments of what to do next
and how to conquer the galaxy falls to infighting. They splinter and a
great civil war happens. The railguns once meant for me, are now turning
on one another.

I picked a good one, it lasting most of the war. The reactor inside
hums, vibrating the railgun underneath me. Radiation leaking from the
core turns the whole thing blue, and just before it can get too hot, the
barrel erupts. A projectile launches from its tip, racing at
unfathomable speeds to eviscerate ships, battle stations, and other
railguns thousands of miles away.

The war lasts years, and I feel a little guilt that I caused this. I
didn't want this violence, but I couldn't just let them go through with
their plans. It felt like the only option at the time, but I wonder how
I could have changed things. Before I can ponder it too hard, I see
something coming out the corner of my eye.

It's a bullet from another railgun. I slow time, and even as seconds get
stretched to months, it's almost moving too fast for me to follow along.
Gradually, I rise from the barrel, stepping off into space just as the
hull is pierced through and through. An azure glow spills from the
reactor, leaking into space, and the whole gun lazily spirals into
nothing.

Decades pass and the war is over. I stay close by, watching their
society in fast motion. They rebuild, not just their crumbled buildings
and their ruined stations, but they find their heart amongst the
destruction. Their war has left them tired of fighting, tired of
dictators, charismatic leaders, and talks of power and ruling the
galaxy.

I watch a freighter come for the railgun, pulling it into pieces. What
is salvaged of the core is sent millions of miles away to power a
station's garden atrium for generations to come. The barrel is chopped
to bits, and I follow a small section smelted into raw metal that is
later repurposed.

At the end of its journey, I see a small komodo dragon hatchling,
unwrapping a present and looking up at his parents in pure bliss. He'd
never know that the casing surrounding his little easy bake oven was
once a tool of awful destruction, and everyone was better for that. I
leave, knowing there's nothing left for me to see here.

I've got a party to go to.

I think to just show up, but that feels a little rude. No, I need a
proper invite. Then I remember the wolf the Wild Thing was standing next
to, and I chase after his image through time and space. It's kinda

hard to flip through a trillion muzzles in history, but I eventually
land on him about six months before the party.

I catch him in his coffee uniform, during the middle of his break. He's
sipping on a latte while flicking through his social media feed, and
seeing him in the light, I realize how handsome he is. It intimidates me
for a second. For all the lovers and all the adventures, he catches me a
little off guard.

Wiggling my body until I'm feeling loosey goosey, I give my muzzle a
slap and tell myself to get it together. With some bravery, I jump right
into it, walking into the cafe and taking the seat across from his table
to introduce myself. The wolf's name is Giovanni.

He's a college dropout, living in a tiny apartment in a shitty
neighborhood on the outskirts of town. When he's not playing video
games, he is writing poetry, but he's mostly playing video games. Don't
look down on him because I love nothing more than spending time
together. When we go out, he likes burgers and hates sushi, but he does
it for me anyways.

Giovanni is saving himself for someone special, and I know it's me. I
know because I look far into the future, when his fur is gray and his
eyes are milky. No spoilers. Just a quick peek, right? Even though he
can't see me so well, he recognizes me walking into the room and says,
``I love you.''

He doesn't say it because he knows what's about to happen next. It's
just something he likes to do spontaneously, and he genuinely means it
every time. It makes me feel good, that same warmth coursing through my
body every time he tells it to me, and maybe that's why I'm just a
little too distracted to notice. I don't see the clot building up inside
his head until it's too late. I say I love you back, and before anything
can be done, he's

gone.

I am cold, scared, lost, and utterly alone.

``Are you crying?'' Giovanni asks, and I shake myself from my vision.

I'm sitting cross-legged on his couch with a controller in my paw. I'm
not alone. We're still just playing video games together in our youth.
Giovanni's got a concerned look on his muzzle, pausing the screen for a
second to check up on me. I wipe my eyes and nose with the fur on the
back of my wrist.

``Yeah, sorry. Allergies, am I right?'' I say, nodding assuredly.

He leans his head back, a sly smile on his muzzle as he stretches out a,
``Surrrreee,'' unconvinced.

I shove him with my shoulder, and though he's almost a foot taller than
me, he shoves me back! The big bad wolf. We're laughing, and resume
playing the game. He'd give me so much shit if he knew I was crying
about an ending. It was always about the journey. I should know that,
better than anyone else.

He goes back to telling me about this cool party, and he wants me to be
his plus one. Giovanni is so close to asking me out, but he's not quite
there yet. I know this is just a way to spend more time with me, and I
shield the rest of our future together from myself. When he finally asks
me out, I want it to be a real surprise.

But if he's not gonna do it tonight then I'm gonna get it from somewhere
and I know exactly from who. I tell him yes, but I need to stop off
somewhere first. No homo, so we fist bump before I walk out the door and
find the last thing I need for myself.

Sitting on a tree at the end of the cretaceous period, I string together
a bundle of flamingo pink flowers. I watch the sunrise, taking in the
vast greenery of lands untouched. There's a brachiosaurus taking a bite
of the leaves next to me, and I reach out to scratch its long neck.

It likes the attention well enough, even if it doesn't know what to make
of me. This time and place feels good, and I realize that the Wild Thing
was right all along: I am having a lot of fun making this crown. At this
point, even after all this time, I finally relax and accept that he was
always me and I was always him.

Looking up, I see an asteroid approaching. It's coming and I fold my
ears back in sorrow. There's a thought that I can stop this. If there is
any time I can play god, it is now. But I know it's not my place to do
anything, and I know that party isn't gonna happen if I make any big
changes. I'm not god. I am the Wild Thing.

The asteroid slams into the planet, the blinding light of a hundred
million megaton explosion sets the world ablaze. I give a final pat to
the brachiosaurus, the creature running for its life away from the
destruction. As the ground tremors up towards me, I take a bow, and I'm
back in front of Giovanni's place.

He answers the door and compliments my flower crown. Just for fun, I

tell him it's not half as beautiful as he is. The wolf's muzzle turns
red, but he pushes past it and holds up his phone. The rideshare is
coming, ready to take me the last mile towards destiny.

When the front door opens, it's the hare that invited me to the party.
He greets Giovanni with a side hug and then the wolf turns to introduce
me as his plus one. The lapine looks at me with some confusion,
recognizing me, but I'm just the loner he accidentally invited to the
party. Thankfully, he doesn't put too much thought into it, and welcomes
me inside.

I spend most of the party with Giovanni being introduced to his friends.
They're all chill, and it's not too hard to have a good time with them.
But it's a little difficult to also not be so excited, and I've got to
focus on the conversations, hoping to make a good impression on his
friends.

But it happens.

Standing across the room, holding for dear life onto a cup, I see me.
It's hard to not break down into tears. There I am, a thousand years
younger, and the second biggest dork in the universe. And my heart is
filled with so much pride.

He's here. He showed up. I can see him more clearly than he could ever
see himself, and I'm just so god damn proud of him. It's a Friday night,
and though he could have spent the evening watching animes he's seen a
billion times over, he's chosen to step out of his comfort zone for the
first time.

He doesn't have a single friend here, but he came anyway with the hope
to make some. The invite was out of pity, but he dressed nice and

remembered to take the fucking pocket protector out of his shirt before
showing up. This night could have been disastrous, and though he doesn't
have my powers to see into the future, he went out anyway, like a real
champ.

He's flawless.

In my opinion, that's the reason why he's so much cooler than me. It's
what makes me feel this intense attraction to him, and I'm getting a
little hot and bothered. The marble fox across the room is slender,
young, and so nervous. He has nothing to fear, because anyone would be
so lucky to be with someone as special as he is.

That's when he turns to me, and we make eye contact. I see his thoughts;
see what he thinks of me, and I'm flattered. In his mind, I see me as
true: I am the Wild Thing, and I want to be with him as much as he wants
to be with me. Except this time, I think I'll be on bottom.

%\includegraphics[width=4.74479in,height=7.10561in]{media/image2.png}

\chapter*{Hi, I'm Jack and I'm Not From This World}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Hi, I'm Jack and I'm Not From This World}
\markboth{Hi, I'm Jack and I'm Not From This World}{Dirt Coyote}

I slap my paw on the table and shout, "And then Bethany says, 'What
Sandwich?'"

The entire group erupts in laughter as I finish my story. Kenneth, the
elk in front of me, throws his head back so hard that his antlers bump
against the wall behind him. My boyfriend wraps an arm around me
tightly, and it feels good to have the husky by my side again. It feels
like it's been years since I've been able to make people laugh that
hard.

The table winds down and a vixen nudges the elk's shoulder, "Hun, you're
gonna get us kicked out again."

``Yeah, yeah,'' he waves his hooves, trying to settle himself down. "I
just forgot how funny Jack can be at times."

I know what he means, though only slightly. The waitress comes around, a
pug with a tablet out for us. ``What drinks would you all be having?'' She
asks with a perky ring in her voice.

I look up at her with a wide grin. ``I'll take a Coke,'' I say, and then
immediately realize my mistake.

So does the rest of the table.

Everyone stops laughing, their eyes all on me. This happens every single
time. I get ahead of myself and say something too fast and now everyone
is confused. It's like I just unbuckled my pants and shat right in the
middle of the table.

``A what?'' she asks, turning her eyes to the rest of the group in
confusion.

My boyfriend, Tre, touches a paw to my leg and mutters, ``Jack?''

I grab my menu, flipping open to the beverages and point at the one on
top. ``Ugh, sorry, I meant a Pepsi. I'd like a Diet Pepsi,'' I clarify.
It's not actually the soda I want, but it's the only one that I
recognize.

The waitress eyes me a second longer before moving to the bear on my
left, Dannon I learned. He's my best friend, I think, but it used to be
Kenneth. ``I think I'll have a Cane,'' he says, trying to act like nothing
is off. I think that's the equivalent of a Coca-Cola, but I'm not really
feeling adventurous enough to find out.

Everyone else orders their drinks, and just as the pug leaves, the
vixen, Trish I think, asks with her eyebrows raised, "Did you try to
order cocaine from the waitress?"

I wave my paws out in front of my chest. "No, no, sorry. I just got
mixed up. Don't worry about it," I say, knowing she's not worth the
explanation. She's just the flavor of the month with how fast Kenneth
goes through girls.

``It's his condition,'' my boyfriend says, and I fold my ears back. I
really wish he didn't, but Tre always likes to explain it so everyone's
on the same page. "He was lost in the woods for half a year and so
sometimes he gets the names of things mixed up."

She nods her head up and down with some sympathy, and I feel a little
guilty cause that's not the truth. It's just the explanation that makes
sense to all of them. I kinda hate having to live with the lie, but I
put on my smile and wave a paw. "Yeah, what he said. It's not a big
deal."

I try and blow past it as quickly as possible and the conversation
starts up as normal again. It always feels like a close call, this whole
lie I've constructed. See, I didn't get lost in any woods. No, about a
month ago, I walked straight into them and knew exactly where to go
cause a witch gave me a map.

Alright, none of this is making any sense to you so lemme catch you up.
Hi, I'm Jack, and I'm not from this world. I'm from your world, where I
graduated from UC Berkeley with a degree in computer science and my
favorite football team is the Packers. Not here though.

See, I wanted to go to this world for some reasons I'd rather keep to
myself, and in this world I'm not the meerkat that hates Disneyland and
loves Buffalo Wild Wings. I walked through a cave and suddenly, I'm Jack
that graduated from UC Golden, my football team is the High Kicks, and
everyone drives on the left side of the road. That blows, but worth it.

Trish leans in, not wanting to drop the conversation. "You poor thing.
What was it like, being out there all by yourself?"

Oh right, and this world's Jack took a camping trip seven months ago and
is probably dead.

``Harrowing,'' I say flatly, and that's enough to change the subject.

``We still on for Sunday?'' Kenneth asks quickly, wrapping his arm over
Trish's shoulder to try and bring her back in.

``Hell yeah! Doug Riot's Wyldstar!'' I confirm, and though I'm not
actually a big fan of movies, spending time with Kenneth sounds good
again. Back in my world, we fell out when I was being a depressed piece
of shit.

The bear, Dannon, leans in and taps his big claw on the table. "Uh,
actually, I thought we were watching the High Kick's game on Sunday?"

I cock my muzzle to the side, and then slap myself on the forehead. "Aw,
shit, I did promise that, didn't I?"

In the month I've been in this world, I've come to learn that Dannon is
the guy I hung out with all the time. He's my old college roommate, I
think, and kinda clingy as all fuck. I don't know what this dimension's
version of me sees in him, but he's been trying to hang out alone and I
guess I owe former me that. Heck, this world's Jack could still be out
there in those woods and I don't wanna ruin what he had going.

``Let's shoot for Saturday,'' I promise Kenneth, and he nods. It must be a
little weird with me wanting to spend so much time with him. We just
seemed to be Facebook, I mean, Faceshare friends in this world.

Tre, my wonderful boyfriend, leans in for a peck on my cheek. My Tre did
that all the time too, usually before he wanted to tell me something. I
peck him back the way I do. He's the one thing that's a mirror replica,
the treasure the witch promised when she helped take me to this
universe.

``Don't forget, we're having dinner with my parents on Saturday,'' he
reminds me.

Ugh, they're the same too, but that's no big deal. "We'll figure out
something," I promise Kenneth, but he looks a bit disheartened. How the
fuck am I supposed to keep track of every new thing, and my schedule.
It's kinda a chore.

Saturday rolls around without too much excitement. I only mix up a few
things throughout the week, but it's nothing crazy. My coworkers had to
wheel me to the correct desk only once, and I call my phone an Android,
which makes no fucking sense to anyone.

``Still driving on the wrong side of the road?'' Tre's mom asks in the
mocking half-joke. half-putdown that she's so good at.

I pour my wine glass close to the brim. ``All the way here,'' I joke,
trying not to let her ruin the mood.

Tre's parents are dressed nice, something they like to do when they have
company over. He made me put on a dress shirt too, even though I wanted
to come in a t-shirt and flip flops. Even between dimensions, some
things never change. ``It's just part of his condition,'' Tre says, always
to my defense.

I put on my smile and nod up and down. Tre's father coughs and shuffles
in his seat. The husky is large and always intimidated me a little bit,
but he says in his deep voice, ``It's good to have you back, regardless.''

I kinda feel like it's a lie. They probably tried ushering Tre towards
some bitch the day I didn't come back home. They always wanted
grandkids, but me and Tre aren't interested. At least I hope we still
don't want any cubs.

``I'm glad to be back. Missed eating real food,'' I say, patting the
little bulge that has grown over my tummy.

His mom snickers at that, pointing over to me. "I bet. You were fur and
bones when they found you."

It's true. I stopped eating altogether back in my world, and when I
think about it, it wasn't fair to let everyone watch me waste away.

Turning to Tre's father, I quickly change the subject. "How's the firm
holding up? Still protecting millionaires from tax evasion?" I joke,
something I could do with him from time to time.

It falls flat.

His muzzle scrunches up, brow raising. ``Firm?''

Tre's mom leans back into her seat with the wine glass to her muzzle.
``Here we go again,'' she says before taking a loud sip.

Tre darts a glare to his mom and says, ``His condition---''

If I have to hear about my condition one more time, I'm gonna lose it,
so I interrupt, ``Sorry. What is it you do again?''

"State prosecutor.

I make sure the millionaires don't evade their share," he says bluntly,
and I can see why my blunder rubbed him so wrong.

``And I'm an astronaut, don't you know?'' Tre's mom jokes at my expense.

My husky straightens himself out on the seat, saying in a strained tone,
"Mother, that's not funny. You're a professor of Biology at Calitazs
State."

Biochem at the Stanford University, but I'm glad he said it so I
couldn't mess that up to. Just little things that're off, and I feel bad
for not doing my research. Like a fraud, cause that's what I am. Still,
I put on my smile and nod like I belong here because I'm not going back.

I let them do most of the talking and the rest of the night moves on
rather smoothly. I can tell that my husky is putting on a show though.
There's just something in the way that he talks that lets me know he's
getting that much closer to the truth. I need to start doing better.

I arrive at Dannon's house with a six pack of Sunnyvale, and I did my
due diligence this time. It's the equivalent of the beer I used to
drink, good ol Hefe, so I feel a little proud of myself. ``Game day!'' I
shout as the bear opens the door for me.

He gives a wide toothy smile at my cheeriness and says, "Guess you've
been excited about this too, haven't you?"

Dannon leans in, gives me a brush on the whiskers, and I almost pull
back. This world's me was a lot more affectionate than I was. I'd never
be so intimate with my friends, but I go along with it and brush
whiskers back.

"It's the High Kicks against the Calitaza Miners. Of course I'm
excited!" I lie.

I'd much rather be watching Aaron Rodgers throw a laser thirty yards
down the field, but the High Kick's stallion, Blee, seems to be good
enough. Football is football and I'm gonna have fun anyways.

``Yeah, I guess we can watch some sports after,'' he says as he leads me
in.

I laugh cause I think he's joking. Games about to start in ten, and I'm
not really sure what after is. I'm lead into the living room, noticing
that there's no game day snacks, and that's a little disheartening. I'd
have at least had some chips out if I was hosting a game.

Plopping my beers on the table, I flop down into the couch and look
expectantly at the TV. Dannon seems to know what I'm waiting for, so he
takes a seat awfully close to me and grabs the remote. He flicks on the
screen, flipping through the channels until he finds what he's looking
for.

My eyes grow wide, and I cough out. ``This isn't the game?''

No, it's certainly not. It's two foxes fucking like mad. Their moans of
pleasure are blaring through the speakers, and the slap of one of the
dudes balls is just loud enough to overcome it. ``Oh god, oh god yes,''
the one getting dicked screams out as he's beating his cock like it owed
him money.

``The fu---''

Before I can finish my thought, there's a thick wet ursine tongue deep
into my muzzle. It's running up against mine, his lips locked firmly to
my face. A paw finds its way into my shirt, claws running through my fur
straight to my nipples. I panic and pull back as hard as I can with my
paws pushing against the bear's chest.

``Holy fuck, dude?'' I scream out, trying to back into a corner of the
couch, but not getting far enough.

He barely seems to register my discomfort as he forces another kiss
against my lips. ``Ohhhhh, I've missed this. C'mere you sweet fuck,'' he
mutters out as he gropes against my leg.

``No!'' I shout again, and this time push the big bear back with enough
force to throw him down on his own couch. ``What the fuck is this?''

The foxes are so loud, I only realize now that he can barely hear me. He
grabs the remote with some confusion and hits pause on the TV. I'd
rather he just turn off the damn thing, cause now it's stuck on a close
up of the foxes railing. Dannon says with some puzzlement.

"What we always do when you come over for the game. Or is this part of
your condition?" He asks with a grin.

``Maybe? Yes? I don't wanna fuck you, if that's what I've been doing,'' I
spit out quickly.

``Jack, you can drop the act.

It's just me,'' Dannon says, and my heart sinks in my gut. He lets out a
low lusty growl, desire still in his eyes. "You joined some sex cult out
there in those woods. Got into the really freaky shit, didn't ya?''

I'm a little disturbed, but mostly relieved he's wrong. ``You're always
wanting to hang out with Kenneth nowadays. You fucking him too, little
slut?" he asks, and not maliciously. It's twisted. Like I'm supposed to
be getting off on the idea of fucking around behind Tre's back. Like I
probably did.

He's not reading me right at all, and he leans in again to run a claw
right up my inner thigh. I hate it, because I know he knows exactly
where to touch me. Only my Tre knew that spot. Blood rushes to my groin,
my body betraying me. He doesn't get to touch me like that again.

My fist swings wild, knocking him right on the nose. It sent the message
home as he completely rolls to the other side of the couch. Paws are
clutching his muzzle and I can see blood pour between his fingers. He
says something like, ``Fuck! My nose!'' but I can't really make it out
when slamming his front door behind me.

I stomp towards my car, fist still clenched tightly. I practically
scrape up my paint job trying to get the keys in the door. As soon as I
get in, I'm out on the street. It's not until I almost run head first
into another car that I realize I'm on the wrong side of the road again.

There's a few blocks difference between me and Dannon's house before I
pull over. Guilt builds up in my chest for hitting the bear the way I
did. He should have stopped when I told him too, but I wasn't as angry
at him as I am myself. This other me.

How did he not know how special Tre was? How could another me have taken
his husky for granted like that? He couldn't have understood the lengths
I've gone to get back to Tre. A bad thought crosses my mind, glad that
this world's Jack went missing. It's not good, because I don't think
anyone deserves to die.

I want to go home, but I can't. It would look too suspicious and I got
the jitters anyways. I'm such an awful liar, I have no idea how Tre
hasn't found out already. My first thought is to go to a bar and watch
the game there, but football is ruined for me at the moment. Then I
remember Kenneth, my actual friend.

The elk agrees to see Wildstar with me. I'm glad that we can just sit in
the cool movie theater. It gives me time to collect myself. The
explosions distract me, and by the time we walk out, I'm feeling a
little better. Kenneth points at a shop, some chain called BlueTops.
It's sorta like Starbucks where I'm from, but everyone drinks hot cider
instead of coffee around here. I think it's gross, but I do wanna chat
with him, so I agree.

``How was the football game?'' Kenneth asks casually, and it's a little
bit of a surprise to me.

``Oh, uh, I didn't end up watching it,'' I say, and I guess with us not
being friends in this universe, he wasn't interested in football, else
he would have known that. Maybe I should have asked my Kenneth if he
ever really liked watching the games with me.

He cocks an eyebrow and asks, "Did something happen with you and
Dannon?"

There's a lump in my throat. I want to tell him everything, the way I'd
tell my Kenneth, but he's not him and I don't want to dump everything on
him. ``I don't think I want to hangout with him anymore,'' I admitted, and
that was mostly the truth.

He nods, pulling up his cider to his muzzle and taking a sip. There's a
little bit of an awkward silence so I blurt out, "How's things with
Trish?"

The elk snorts, the steam coming off the drink blowing all over the
place. "We split up. She had too many issues with my rack, and
truthfully, I wasn't a big fan of hers either," he said, waving his
hooves in circles.

I laugh, ``Same ol' Kenneth. Always on the hunt for something better.'' As
I finish, I take a big sip of my cinnamon apple cider and try my best
not to wrinkle my muzzle. I don't know how they do it here, but they
replaced ketchup with buffalo sauce, so, I guess it's a fair trade.

His brow goes up, but his smile doesn't fade.

"You say that like we know each other. This is the most I've seen you in
years," he states, though it's not a challenge.

``Why did we never hang out? You're awesome,'' I say, because I'm still
not sure what happened in this universe.

He scratches his chin with his hoof, looking at me shyly. "I guess I
never was your type? Your friends usually seem to be more your speed,"
he says carefully, skirting around the issue and it finally clicks with
me.

I wasn't--- this Jack wasn't friends with someone unless they were
sleeping together. And it was a dirty secret that everyone knew. Man, I
was such a loser in this world cause Kenneth is the best. Well, I guess
I am a loser in my own world too, cause I let my Kenneth go as well.
That wasn't going to happen again.

I lean over and say with a smile, "I'd like us to spend time together
more. You watch football?"

Coming home, I'm feeling a lot better. Kenneth agrees to come over next
Sunday so I can teach him about the game. I also make a note to pick out
some movies to watch together, because this Kenneth seems to enjoy doing
that. No foxes fucking on the TV this time. I open the door to my house,
and hear Tre call me from the basement.

I get to the top of the stairs and knock on the open door. "You down
here babe?" I ask, slowly descending the steps.

``Yeah! Come down here. I wanna show you something,'' he calls back, and I
can hear him fiddling with things.

It's dimly lit down here, and I can see him in a corner with some bikes
on the rack. ``What're you up to, hun?''

He doesn't turn around as he continues messing with the bikes. "Just
looking at old pictures of us at Cinderland. We look so goofy in the
photos. You remember that?" He says chipperly.

Ugh, another thing different. I know Cinderland enough from the ads to
know it's Disneyland and I hate that place. Not only was this me a
cheating bastard, but he was also one of those Disney nuts. I'd never
willingly go to that shithole. I roll my eyes and put on my best smile.

``Oh yeah. That was a lot of fun. Can't wait to go back,'' I say, and it's
hard for me to keep that same cheery tone.

``Photos in the desk,'' he says, but his voice sounds a little different.

I turn to the desk, and it's not my Dad's cherrywood, but a blocky metal
workstation. I pull open the long drawer handle and freeze as I see
nothing inside at all. I turn to face the husky and say, "Um, hun,
there's nothing in--- oh."

Whelp, this is different. My Tre didn't own a gun. But now this Tre was
pointing one right at me, paws shaking. Tears are running down the sides
of his face and his muzzle is twisted in an angry frown. ``Hun---''

"Don't you fucking Hun me. I don't know who you are, but my Jack would
never go to Cinderland. My Jack hates that place, but you wouldn't know
that cause you're not him," he says, legs spread like he's bracing
himself for the gun to go off any second.

My heart's pounding, and I slowly raise my paws over my head. He's
shaking so bad, it's just as likely he's gonna shoot me on accident as
much as he is on purpose. Not gonna lie, but a little wee comes out. "My
condition---"

``STOP IT,'' he barks, thrusting the pistol forward. "Stop lying! You're
so fucking bad at it, and I'm done lying for you."

He's been taken way past the edge, and It's killing me to see him so
distressed. I should've known he could see right through me. My Tre
always could, and I shouldn't have expected any different.

``It's not what you think,'' I start, my heart breaking as I'm forced to
admit the truth. ``But I'm not your Jack.''

"I knew it! I knew it from the start that you weren't him! And you just
lied to me and took advantage of me," he says, fang sinking so hard in
his lip that he's drawing blood. "Who the fuck are you? What the fuck
are you? Are you some furwalker? Some sort of demon?"

I gulp loudly and try to explain all at once, "I'm Jack, but I'm not
from here. A witch gave me directions to this cave where I---"

``I swear to God,'' Tre says, and grips his pistol tighter.

My muzzle cracks, I can't hold anything back because I don't want to say
it.

I don't want to relive it. The lengths I've gone to escape that hell. I
don't want to say it, but he deserves the truth and so I shout through a
sob. ``It was you!''

His maw opens and there's a look of complete puzzlement on his muzzle.
He's about to speak, but I snort up snot and explain. "Where I'm from,
you went on that camping trip seven months ago. Not me. And when you
left you just---`` I choke down mucus building up in my throat. ''You just
vanished.

"I spent months in those mountains looking for you. Every time the
rangers went out, I was there. All the money we saved was spent on
private expeditions when everyone else gave up. I stopped eating. I
stopped sleeping. I stopped talking. People couldn't even stand to look
at me anymore. I got so desperate, I started going to psychics and
paranormal shit for help. Anything just to have you back."

I fall into the workbench, and drag the back of my paw over my eyes.
He's barely visible through my tears. I can tell he's still got the
pistol out, but it's pointed slightly downward. There's a small
sniffling as he tries to work out everything I've said.

He shakes his head back and forth before he says, "It scares me like
nothing else. Since you've been back, you've told me nothing but lies."
I brace myself, thinking it might be it for me, but he finishes, "You're
such an awful liar, but I think for the first time, you're telling me
the truth. Or whatever you think the truth is."

I let out a small sigh of relief and hold out my paw towards him. "I'm
sorry I lied, but I'm telling you the truth now and truthly, I want you
to put down the gun so we can just talk about this."

Tre looks down at the pistol like he hadn't realized he'd whipped one
out on me. He scoffs, rolls his eyes, and then tosses it my direction. I
panic, floundering as it goes sailing through the air. I cup out both
paws, bracing myself for it to go off and take a finger with it.

It clanks softly against my paw pads, lighter than I expect it to be.
Only when I feel the slosh of water do I realize that it's not a real
gun. In fact, looking at it close up, it's pretty obvious it's a squirt
toy. I look up at him and he takes a step back, ears red hot with
embarrassment.

The husky's lip is quivering as he whispers, "I'm sorry. All I wanted
was the truth."

I set the squirt gun behind me, but I'm a little afraid to approach Tre.
His muzzle is to the ground, like he did something wrong. I mean, it
wasn't very nice that he pointed a gun at me, but I guess I kinda had it
coming.

"Sorry, for all the lying. I thought if I stayed here long enough, you'd
never notice," I admit.

He rubs his eye, letting out a small pitiful laugh. "You've always been
a bad liar. He was always a bad liar too: About Dannon, the other guys,
football, and all that."

My ears go up, and I feel some collateral guilt from what he just said.
``You knew he was cheating on you? And you stayed with him anyways?''

His legs wobble before he can't even hold himself up anymore. He takes a
weary step back, thumping against the wall and slowly sliding down it.
When he's on the floor with his head between his knees, he says. "I
knew. You used--- he used to think he was so sly, but I always knew. He
wouldn't even know the scores when he said he was out watching football.
But I stayed cause losing you--- him---"

He pauses to look up at me, and I feel connected with him in an awful
way. The way that I never stopped looking in those damn woods. I gave up
my friends, my life, my family just for the sheer hope of seeing him one
last time. What we shared was the inability to let go, and I see it in
his eyes like he sees it in mine.

``I guess it doesn't matter anymore,'' he starts, waving a paw lazily
around. ``I lost him anyways, and he's never coming back.''

It's the words he needs to say, just as much as the words I need to
hear. Cause truthfully, my Tre is gone too. My Tre is never coming back.
For the first time ever, I have to accept that. So I walk over, pick a
spot close, and get down on the ground with him.

It feels like we just stay there in silence for hours. Maybe it is,
because there's a million things for me to think of doing next. I could
probably go back and find that cave again. Repair things with my
Kenneth, make things right in my world. Not everyone gets a second
chance like this, so instead I say.

"I don't know what happened to your Jack, and I don't know what happened
to my Tre. They just disappeared, and I don't think they're coming
back," I say, then lift my head and turn towards him. He's done the
same, and our noses are just a few inches from each other. He's not
crying anymore, though his eyes are red.

"But what I do know is that you're the only Tre I have left, and I think
I might be the last of me that exists. So how about this?" I gulp, and
hold out a paw towards him. ``Hi, I'm Jack, and I'm not from this world.''

He laughs, cause it does sound a little goofy. I could always make my
Tre laugh unintentionally, and it gives me confidence I can make this
one laugh like that too. He doesn't take my paw yet, so I continue, "I
like Buffalo Wild Wings, though, I have no idea what you call it here. I
hate Cinderland, but we call it Disneyland where I came from"

"Kenneth was my best friend, and I didn't hang out with anyone named
Dannon. I actually watched football when I said that's what I was doing.
I wasn't perfect, but not once did I ever cheat on my Tre, and I promise
I would never cheat on you either," I say, and it starts to make my eyes
water thinking about the things this Tre has gone through.

He looks at my paw, thinking about it for a minute, before his eyes turn
up to mine in a stern look. ``No more lies?''

It's a big promise to keep, but I've gone too far to turn back now. I
nod and repeat, ``No more lies.''

With a sigh, he reaches out and clasps my paw. "Hi Jack. It's nice to
meet you. My name is Tre. Welcome to my world."

\chapter*{Hey, Buddy}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Hey, Buddy}
\markboth{Hey, Buddy}{Dirt Coyote}

Sacha rolled cold eggs around his plate, twiddling his fork
between his fingers. The metal scratched about, irritating the two other
wolves at the table. Dad pretended not to hear it, scrolling through his
phone and twitching with every scrape. Mom, however, was not having
it.

Her utensils clattered against the granite tabletop and she
coughed. "You know, I'd sure like to meet Calvin this weekend. He sounds
lovely."

Subtle.

It'd been a month. Not since Sacha'd come
out. That happened years ago and all \emph{discussions} about that were
long since distant hazy memories. It'd been a month since he told his
parents about Calvin, the charming dalmatian he started
dating.

Sacha let his fork go, pulling out his phone without taking
his eyes off Mom. "I can text him. He gets straight A's so I'm sure his
parents wouldn't mind. Maybe tonight, if I send it right
now.''

Her tongue clicked in her cheek, but he knew she'd do that.
Something in his teenage hormones told him he had to make everything
difficult, especially if he knew it would make everything difficult. The
two's stares bore into each other, an argument boiling up to the surface
underneath the
silence.

A hard crack of ceramic wheels rolling over the driveway's
cement slabs rang hard. It was enough to distract them, all six lupine
ears flashing upwards to listen for an impending fall. It never came and
they relaxed. Mom was first to
speak.

``I think you know that's not what I'm saying,'' she said,
claws rapping at the
table.

"Why can't Calvin just come over?'' Leaning in and lowering
his voice, Sacha continued, ``I don't see why I have to talk to Reggie
first."

His little brother wouldn't be able to hear him from
outside. Not while practicing ollies on his skateboard, but Sacha didn't
like talking about him behind his
back.

Mom dropped her voice similarly. "I want him to understand.
We don't like springing any surprises on
him."

Dad followed up, a chuckle in his voice, "Boy nearly had a
heart attack when we served salmon instead of hot dogs that one
night."

Both Sacha and Mom glowered, his sense of humor not welcome.
He rolled his eyes and put himself back into his
phone.

Sacha's fingers went up to his temple, rubbing a patch of
white fur that circled his eye. "Why don't you two talk with him? You're
the
adults.''

Her brow furrowed, the argument rehashed for so long it
could walk on two feet. ``He'll have questions. Questions I won't know
the answer to. And, no offense hunny, but do you really want your father
to talk to him about this?'' Dad shrugged and mock frowned, accepting
the out like the joker he
was.

It wasn't that simple. Dad pulled Sacha aside once and said
they'd talk to Reggie if he really couldn't, but he had to at least try.
He had to genuinely try and help his little brother understand his
sexuality before his father might intervene. Not before
then.

Sacha pushed his plate away like his responsibilities were
on top. ``What do you want me to say? I date dudes? Just tell him I'm
gay like he doesn't already think that word means stupid or
bad?''

Mom's ears ducked, but she pushed forward anyways, ``If he
thinks that then you can correct him on it. He'll listen to
you.''

Frustration growled out from Sacha's throat and graveled his
words as he spoke, ``What if he doesn't? What if he freaks out or
something?''

Dad squinted, a warning to keep those growls in check. Mom
rubbed a paw through her headfur, just as annoyed as Sacha. ``That's why
you need to talk to him
first.''

It'd become circular, this
argument.

Sacha's paws came down hard on the table. ``You guys don't
understand!''

He winced, embarrassed at what he'd just done. There was a
ninety percent chance he was grounded, no matter what he'd do. Neither
Mom nor Dad spoke, their faces frozen in shock. Seeing their expressions
hurt him, almost physically, and he had to be honest with
them.

``I'm sorry. I wanted to tell him. I really did. I just
don't want him to hate me,'' Sacha said, voice quivering. Cause, oh god,
he really did try. The weekend prior, he'd sat down in the driveway with
Reggie. He was ready to tell him everything and it just got stuck in his
chest. All the words he'd meant to say, and all he could do was teach
his little brother to do an
ollie.

Mom rose and Sacha's head went down. He closed his eyes,
ready for the scolding of a lifetime. Arms draped over his shoulders,
whiskers brushing against his own as she hugged him from behind. Her
cheek was warm, his tear soaking into the fur on her
muzzle.

``He'd never hate you,'' she said softly. ``I know that,
cause we love you too much to ever. Him
especially.''

Sacha let out a sigh of relief, her affection enough to pull
off some of his worries. When he opened his eyes, Dad was smiling. His
eyebrows flicked up in a sorta, ``She's right, you know?'' but at least
he didn't say
it.

The front door opened, skateboard collapsing onto the
hardwood floors of the foyer. Mom would give Reggie shit for that, but
for now, she released the hug and sat back in her seat. Sacha nodded to
both of them, took a deep breath, and walked into the living
room.

Reggie was on the couch, flicking through channels on the
TV. Two bluish-grey ears poked out of the helmet he'd not yet taken off.
A white spot of fur circled his eye same as Sacha's. He was so focused
on screen, he barely registered his older brother sitting down next to
him.

``Hey, buddy.''

Reggie turned, eyes and smile lit bright. Sacha knew in that
look, everything would be
alright.

%\includegraphics[width=4.68877in,height=7.03877in]{media/image4.png}

\chapter*{``Forever Forever Forever''}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{``Forever Forever Forever''}
\markboth{``Forever Forever Forever''}{Dirt Coyote}

The grass crackled like glass with every footstep Cody took onto the
empty football field. Each white line of the gridiron already fading
into the night. A puff of cloudy air exhaled out of the wolf's muzzle as
he sighed. It was one heck of a year.

Despite winning the game, his team, the Greenpark Loggers, was last in
the division and wouldn't be moving any further for the semester. Heck,
this was probably the last time he'd ever step out onto the field. He
didn't see himself pursuing football in college, not that community
would have a team. He got his one win as starting quarterback and he did
it with the whole support of his team.

He couldn't have asked for more.

``Cody!''

A voice rang out from the eerie silence of the empty stands. The wolf
turned, put on a smile, and faced the panther running towards him in his
own letterman jacket. He almost didn't brace himself in time as the cat
darted across the field and into his arms. They spun around in circles,
the jock lifting the other teen off the ground. His warm neck nuzzled
into his shoulder the entire way.

When they'd gotten dangerously close to toppling over, Cody sat him back
down on his feet.

Their eyes met, both holding onto wide smiles until their instincts
became too much to hold back. They locked their muzzles into a long
passionate kiss, taking in their scents and the cold night air. It was
the first time they'd done it so open, and even in an empty field, this
one felt special.

``You did it!'' Becker shouted, following with a peck to his cheek. "You
did it! You did it! You did it!"

Cody nodded his head up and down sheepishly, paw to the back of his
head. ``I know. I know,'' he replied, although there were so many things
that he could have meant, he wasn't sure what he was responding to.

Becker's tail lashed about behind him, something he couldn't contain
when he got this excited. "I told you your team would support you and
they did. Even Drake had your back. And you won the game! I always
believed in you."

He did. It was a month ago, though it felt like years now, when the
first rumors went around that he was gay. Cody tried so hard to keep it
a secret, tried to squash down everything said behind his back. He'd
even gotten physical with his best friend, Drake, just to try to keep
things from getting out. Of course, Becker told him that the team
wouldn't care, just needed to know that he trusted them.

"You were right about that, and I've never felt closer to them than I do
now. Thanks," Cody said. Though he did mean it, he couldn't help but
look toward the empty stands. His smile faltered a bit, but he tried to
hold onto it for his panther's sake.

Becker saw through him immediately. "They'll come around. They're your
family. They have to come around."

Cody's lupine muzzle dipped, the wound still fresh. They'd been caught
kissing a week ago by his dad, and then was promptly thrown out. He had
thought they would have come to the game anyways, always adamant about
saving face. Guess not this time.

Becker rested a paw on his shoulder, and Cody did his best not to wince.
He didn't want anyone to see how bad that last hit was, the one where he
tucked the football under his arm and went straight into the line. Even
with all the padding, the Elk he forced back really nailed him. Through
it all though, he managed to push the ball forward and score the game
winning touchdown.

That though relieved some of the tension, and he turned back to his
panther. "You're usually about these things. You've always been the
smarter one," he conceded.

"Mom says that you can stay however long you want. Heck, she can even
get you a job at her warehouse until you get back on your feet. She's
practically in love with you," he said, and to lighten up the situation,
he added, ``I should really watch out for her.''

Cody's muzzle twisted into a mock frown and he stuck his tongue out.
``Don't make it weird. You know you're the only cat in my life.''

The panther playfully slugged his shoulder, something that he hated Cody
doing back. But it was enough to let him know that he cared and would
always be there for him. Even though they were about to be separated by
hundreds of miles. That thought came to mind and his ears folded back.

"It'll be hard though, with you going to UC Golden in the fall. At least
we'll have a few months together," Cody said, scratching a paw to the
back of his head to cover up his disappointment. It took some growing
up, but he'd finally come to terms with Becker's decision to leave state
for school. Asking him to change schools was cublike, and he felt bad he
did it to begin with.

Becker grinned slyly, and Cody knew something was up before he even said
it. His ears went up just as the feline started with, ``Actually--''

``Don't tell me you're--''

"I think I heard University of Greenpark has a developing CS
department," Becker interrupted casually.

Cody furrowed his brow, and though he was happy, he couldn't help but
feel a little guilty. "Don't do this for me. UC Golden is an opportunity
of a lifetime. It'll only be a few years and I can eventually work my
way out there," he said, but didn't truly believe his words.

Becker just shook his head, smile still on his muzzle, "It's already
done. They were my backup anyways, so it's not too big a deal."

Tears ran down the side of the wolf's muzzle. He thought this might've
been over, and now they were truly going to stay together. With so much
emotions building up, he took a deep breath, reached down into his
pocket, and got down onto a knee.

``Cody?'' the

panther whispered, eyes wide.

This was why he wanted him to meet him on the field after the game. Even
if their team had lost, he'd go through with it. Even if Becker was
still going to UC Golden, he had planned this. He looked up into his
boyfriend's eyes and pulled out his high school ring.

"Lance Becker Adams, we've been doing this together in secret for two
years now. It's been fucking crazy, with ups and down. I don't want to
keep us hidden anymore,`` he paused before adding, ''I-- I've lost so
much to get here, but I don't ever want to lose you. Would you--?"

``Yes!'' the panther shouted through tears.

It was good that he interrupted him, cause the big speech he had planned
out was falling apart anyways. All he wanted to hear was that word. With
that, he slipped his ring onto the panther's finger. His own tears ran
down the sides of his muzzle, and though they stung, he couldn't be
happier.

Cody asked in shaky words, ``Forever?''

``Forever.''

\emph{Forever.}

\secdiv

Mistakes had

been made. Not just a decade ago, but the night prior for sure. Cody
knew that before he even opened his eyes. He knew it before his arm
rolled over to the side only to land on a short furred back.
Immediately, he pulled it away, scooching to his side of the bed.

Well, it wasn't his side of the bed anymore. Now it just was just his
bed. He threw up the sheets as quietly as possible, carefully wiggling
his way off. The motion pinched his shoulder, the football injury that
never seemed to heal correctly. Still, he bore the pain just to leave
the bed without waking up Becker.

He needed coffee.

Cody rubbed the sand out of his eyes, only to knock into a box laying
out in the hall. His footpaw went into it with a thud, thankfully only
filled with clothes rather than something that would make a lot of
noise. If he ran into Becker's fucking figurine set, he'd be sure to
have him pull out every single one just to check for damages.

He pushed the box just out of the way so he wouldn't hit it again. Of
course, there was a maze of cardboard leading all the way to the
kitchen. For as smart as he brags, Becker had the organizational skills
of a cub. It used to be enduring at some point: times where Cody would
clean up the panther's desk because he knew his husband wouldn't be able
to find anything under stacks of soda cans. Not so much anymore.

The very first thing he noticed when he walked into the kitchen was the
lack of a coffee maker. ``Son of a bitch,'' he muttered out, and when he
thought about it, he actually meant it.

Cody looked over at a box on top of the island countertop. Kitchen
supplies. He could understand the blender, the food processor,

the expensive knives, and even half of the dishes. He didn't cook much
for himself, so there'd be no doubt packaged noodles were gonna make up
the majority of his meals in the coming months.

But the coffee maker? It was only twenty bucks when he first bought it,
but Cody \emph{did} buy it. Didn't matter who used it more. He'd bought
it when he was working late night shifts in the warehouse. Cody still
worked late evenings, a bartender now, and would occasionally want a
coffee. Not nearly as much when he was slugging around boxes for that
awful woman.

It was petty, but Becker could buy his own fucking coffee machine. With
his claw, he ran through the tape over the top of the box. The pounding
hangover spurred him on, tossing the paper buffer onto the countertop
carelessly until he found what he was looking for.

He set it up, pulling out a filter and pouring in his cheap dollar store
coffee into it. Of course, Becker left him that. He was always
complaining that the cheap stuff was inferior, but Cody couldn't taste
the difference with the cream and sugar. His husband-- ex-husband
could never understand the value of a dollar.

The pot was filling just as he heard the sound of someone stumbling out
into the hall. Cody leaned his back against the cupboard, something he'd
gotten used to when an impending fight was coming. And sure enough, as
soon as the panther came around the corner, he was already speaking.

``Please tell me what happened last night, didn't actually happen,''
Becker said with a paw over his forehead, no doubt sporting the same
hangover.

Cody crossed his arms, brow furrowed. "Why do you do that? Always point
out the obvious so it's more awkward than it already is?"

It must've been pretty early in the morning, the feline keeping his
mouth shut for a second as he thought of a response. He'd almost thought
he wouldn't have anything for him, but of course, there was always a
bullet in the chamber. "Because some people like talking about things.
Like why the hell did you take the coffee maker out?"

"My coffee maker. I bought it. Doesn't matter who used it more. It's
mine," Cody said, and immediately felt like a fucking cub for saying it.
His lupine ears folded back, and he shook his head as he sighed. "You're
free to have a cup."

``Is it--''

``It's the cheap shit. You can keep all of your beans,'' Cody added
swiftly, as if to make a point that the coffee maker was staying.

Becker moved groggily towards the pantry, pulling out two red plastic
cups for himself. As he did, he spoke, "Mom said that it was a fair
trade since the fur blower is staying with you, but whatever."

"Oh, that's a surprise: You and her calculated it all down to the
penny?" he asked with some bitterness in his voice.

The panther clicked his tongue to his cheek, tail snapping like a whip.

``You know, you could be a little bit grateful.''

Cody opened his muzzle to speak, but a ding of the coffee machine's bell
interrupted him. There was nothing nice to say anyways, so it was for
the best. He just grabbed the pot and poured it into his mug before
holding it out to Becker. The panther held out his cup, and Cody filled
it about three quarters full.

Cody sat his mug on the counter while the panther just sipped his black.
He never understood how he could do that. The wolf added a hefty amount
of cream before pouring in an almost equal amount of sugar inside.
Becker looked at his mug, equally revolted by the wolf's choice.

``So,'' Cody started, a little pause as he thought of his words. "Maybe we
should divvy up our bars? Like how Rich and Josh did when they split
up?"

The panther's ears folded back, and he looked up with a little bit of a
glare, ``The Hopper is kinda my thing. Don't you have your own bar?''

"I'm not gonna drink at my own bar. It's a straight bar. Can't you pick
one of the clubs? You like dancing," he pointed out, not wanting to give
up The Hopper. It was closer, easier to walk home while drunk. Course,
that was why they stumbled home together the night before and made this
sticky mess.

"You hardly ever go to The Hopper. You're always with your football
friends when you go out. Besides, it's hard to hit on dudes at the clubs
with the music blaring," Becker whined.

"Yeah, you do like to do that, don't

you?" Cody shot with some ice in his voice.

The panther straightened his stance, claws dimpling the plastic cup he
was holding. "I flirted. It was \emph{just} flirting. You don't have any
fucking room to speak."

``You'd do it right in fucking front of me all the time,'' Cody said,
point his mug at the panther quick enough to spill some coffee over the
rim.

A mean smile split Becker's muzzle, and he threw a paw out into the air.
"Oh, Is this when you want to open up about your feelings? Didn't want
to do that before you--"

``--How was I supposed to fucking feel?'' He interrupted. Even as the
words left his mouth, he knew he stepped in it big time.

"You weren't supposed to feel that it was okay to cheat on me. How did
the math even work out that you could compare the two?" Becker brought
it up, like the months of marriage counseling hadn't drilled in how he
was the bad guy.

"Jeez, Beck, when's the fucking ice queen get here so I can finally stop
having that thrown in my face every fucking day of my life?"

Becker slapped his cup against the table, pointing a finger at the wolf.
"How dare you? Mom's done more for you than any of

your washed up highschool-peaked loser football friends. Go drink with
them!"

Lines were being crossed all over, the fight they've always needed to
have now that nothing was left to save. "They were the only people that
stuck by me! Your mom exploited me for years in her fucking sweatshop.
Even with my bad shoulder. Hell, she probably made it worse than it ever
was," he said, rotating his arm just to dig in his point.

"You just resented her because you hate your own family for abandoning
you! You couldn't understand how hard it was for her to take care of
both of us while supporting herself," Becker said, standing straight.

Cody accepted the challenge, stepping forward to the panther. "Don't you
dare bring up my family like you knew half of what I went through."

``My dad--''

`` --Not the same fucking thing, Beck! Talk about false equivalencies,''
Cody interrupted, but Becker was far from done.

He just continued as if the wolf said nothing, "And I stayed at your
side through all of it, only for you to throw it all away by sleeping
with that otter."

"You think we're splitting cause I cheated on you? News flash, Becker,
but that was just a symptom of the cancer that was us. Or were you only
were you only paying attention to the shrink when I was being berated?"

``I gave up my chance to be at UC Golden for you--''

``That was your own choice!'' Cody shouted back, but they were just
yelling over one another.

"--and stayed in this bumfuck town just to be close to you, and you
don't feel the slightest bit of remorse!"

Of course he felt bad about it, but Cody was done. He tried to get more
words in, but the panther just kept going. Kept throwing everything in
his face. He couldn't even hear the words anymore, so he grabbed his mug
and chucked it as hard as he could just over his sink.

\emph{CRASH}

It shattered and Becker cried out, but didn't say anything after. An
eerie silence came over the room, only the drips of coffee puddling onto
the sink could be heard. Cody took a deep breath, and put his paws to
his eyes to wipe away the tears.

The wolf slumped his back against the counter and asked, "What're we
doing? Why are we still fighting? It's done. We signed the papers. It's
over. We killed the beast that was our relationship, and we finally get
to move on."

Becker's body folded similarly against the kitchen island and he snorted
up mucus. ``I just didn't want it to end like this,'' he said in a sigh.
There was a long pause. Cody didn't know how to respond to that, but the
feline had another question on his mind. "When did we end up hating one

another?"

Cody dropped his paws and looked at the panther earnestly. Becker looked
defeated, and it hurt to know that he was at fault for it. Straightening
himself out, he shook his head back and forth and said, "I don't hate
you." Becker looked up, seemingly unconvinced at first, but with a
half-hearted chuckle, Cody continued, "If anything, I think last night
proves we don't hate each other."

That got a weak laugh from Becker, but a soft sob followed it after.

``I don't hate you either,'' he admitted weakly.

Cody stepped towards the shards of his mug, piling the pieces together
carefully. "We just-- there was so much pressure for us to work. Not
just from us, but everyone. Everyone saw what we went through,
everything we sacrificed: your school and my family. We just had so many
unfair expectations to stay together, even when things were starting to
become apparent."

The first thing that came to Cody's mind was Becker's flirting, but the
cracks started long before that. Times where he'd complain about his
shoulder, only for the panther to come in defense of his mom and why she
worked him as hard as she did. Times where Becker would be frustrated
with school, and Cody wouldn't be able to help him in the slightest.
Even before the otter, he'd had thoughts of sleeping around. Never
brought it up, but talking was never his thing to begin with. Too late
now.

Again, they remained quiet. The ceramic clanked against the countertop
as Cody traced a claw over his broken mug. He almost didn't hear the
quiet padding of the panther coming up at his side. Becker rested a paw
on his shoulder and held it there for a little while.

After a few seconds, he finally spoke, "I don't want us to be like Rich
and Josh."

That got a snort out of Cody and he turned to face Becker. "Which part?
The thing where they call bars ahead of time to make sure the other
isn't there, or the weird rule that if we invite one out to do
something, we have to invite the other for the next event so it seems
fair?"

Both of them chuckled at that and Cody continued, "No, I don't want us
to be like that either. Too many weird fucking rules. But we could
probably use some distance from each other. Just for a bit. You can have
The Hopper for now."

Becker shuffled his feet nervously and took a step away. "Actually, I
was about to concede it. I don't think I'm ready anyways," he said with
his muzzle toward the ground.

Cody turned to face the panther, ``Don't think you're ready?''

He folded an arm over his chest, sleek tail flicking back and forth at
his side. "Yeah, it's just-- last night. I was at the bar for hours. I
thought I could just find a hookup to unwind. All I could do was stand
in the corner the entire time, looking like a fucking creeper. I'm not
really sure how to talk to anyone. You always were better at that than
me."

Cody lifted his eyes up thoughtfully before nodding. "I guess you've
never really hooked up with anyone before, right? That's weird. We're
almost in our thirties and never have we had a proper date."

With some bashfulness, Becker agreed, "Yeah. So after a couple drinks, I
saw you, and I just kinda wanted to do anything but stand alone in a
bar."

Cody nodded and then shook his head. ``Yeah, no. I get it,'' he said, but
when he noticed the panther was still stuck in a frown, he added,
"C'mon, Beck. You're a good guy. You're attractive and smart. It'll be
alright. We're not even out of our twenties yet."

The compliment was hard to give, especially since he didn't want to
accidentally give off the wrong signal. There were already too many
sexual slip-ups between the two of them. Becker looked like he
understood though, and gave a sharp nod. ``Yeah, probably. Thanks.''

They both sighed, exhausted, but in a better place then they were at the
start. Becker flicked his ears over to the bathroom. "I should probably
shower. You'll be gone by the time Mom gets here?"

He didn't ask it with any resentment, and Cody understood that, but
shrugged his shoulders anyways. "I guess I can stay and help. What's one
more box?"

They both laughed, but before the panther left, he asked, "Um, I packed
away my towels. Would you mind if I use your towel?"

The very first thing off the tip of Cody's tongue was to say, "Never
stopped you before." but he didn't. It wouldn't have been malicious, and
the joke would have been understood by both of them. No, he just knew
that if they were going to move on, he was going to have to start
putting their relationship behind

him.

``Sure thing.''

The last box was stuffed into the moving van. A decade of Becker's life
squeezed into a room-sized truck. His mother had kept things cordial,
even though she did need to micromanage a little bit. Cody knew she
wouldn't be able to help herself, but didn't make anything more awkward
than it had to be.

It took both Cody and Becker to close up the trailer. Each grabbed pull
rope and rolled down the door until it locked in place. The wolf wrapped
his claws against the back, saying, ``That's everything?''

It wasn't so much a question about the boxes. They knew well enough that
everything was in the truck. Becker gave a half-smile, grabbing hold of
the latch and locking it closed. ``I think that's everything.''

Cody looked towards the house, his new life in front of him just as his
old life was leaving him behind. He then turned back to Becker and
asked, ``You'd still want to be friends after this?''

Becker slugged Cody's uninjured shoulder, even though he didn't like it
when the wolf did it to him, and asked, ``Forever?''

Tears built up over the wolf's eyes. He pulled him into a tight hug and
Becker squeezed back tightly. Through a sob, Cody muttered into his ex's
shoulder. ``Forever.''

\emph{Forever.}

%\includegraphics[width=4.8125in,height=7.22433in]{media/image6.png}

\chapter*{Saying Goodbye to Mayberry}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Saying Goodbye to Mayberry}
\markboth{Saying Goodbye to Mayberry}{Dirt Coyote}

Johnathan wiped at his face, still a little sleepy eyed. Even after
being on the road for several hours, the sun was only just rising behind
him. He could see it in the rear view mirror poking up just over the
clouds. Seeing it, he let out a big yawn until his vulpine ears popped.

It was a long drive up the mountains, one that he made every year for
the past ten. Back when he was a teenager, his parents would have a
billion questions asking where he'd been all day, but he would just lie
and say he was with friends. Now that he was older, the only person he
had to tell was Sasha. Even then, he lied and told him that he was doing
something for work.

A weary grin split the fox's muzzle as he saw the sign for Mayberry
ahead. The long abandoned mountain town was only fifteen more miles
ahead. His muzzle turned down to the dashboard. There seated a faded
picture of himself, age fifteen, with a pine marten wrapped around his
side. Tears built up at the corners of his eyes, but blinked them out
quickly.

It wouldn't be much longer.

The trees grew thick as he turned onto a dirt road. He'd done this trip
enough times not to need a map or voice assistant. Not that one would be
much help. Mayberry wasn't listed on any service and most maps don't
even include it anymore. He knew the way well enough.

His truck bounced up and down, the path having not been cleared in
decades. Johnathan always worried that someday he'd get stuck in some
hole that formed or a tree would topple over and trap him there. It
wouldn't be too bad, cause he wouldn't be alone.

Even as he pulled in, he could see another car driving towards the town.
It wasn't a secret, per say. No, he only needed the internet and days of
desperately scrounging the deepest folds of the web until he found what
he was looking for. That was when he was sixteen, and no doubt anyone
older could find it if they wanted to and some others had.

Johnathan wasn't sure if the government or some shadow organization knew
about this place, but if they had, they didn't care and weren't
interested in what it had to offer. If anything, they probably Mayberry
alone out of pity for those who wished to seek it. The fox's ears folded
back, thinking about what he was doing.

But he was already here, and turning back now would just hurt worse.

The town itself had existed up until the early sixties. There were a
handful of buildings, a grocery store, a gas station, a park, and some
residential homes along the sides of the road. Johnathan did what
everyone else did. At least half a dozen cars were parked in the grocery
store's lot.

He recognized a teenage raccoon leaning up against the side of her
station wagon and picked a spot close to her. She was decked out in
black, piercings all over. Black eyeliner, black lipstick. Johnathan
hadn't remembered the septum piercing in her nose, figuring she must've
added it in the year they'd been away.

``Becka,'' Johnathan greeted, stepping off his truck.

She nodded, pulling a flask and taking a swig of it before lighting a
cigarette. He cocked a brow and shook his head. "Aren't you like,
seventeen? You shouldn't be doing that," the fox chided, but she
shrugged her shoulders.

``What're you? My fucking dad? Mind your own shit,'' she said, turning her
head to face the bulletin board against the wall of the grocery store.
``Better put your picture up. It'll be starting soon.'' Her words had a
bite to them and he knew why.

When he first came to Mayberry ten years ago, he thought this place was
a miracle. He thought that this was a gift and couldn't understand why
so many people came here looking distraught. Now, he was older and knew
the truth of this abandoned town: it was a curse.

Still, he'd done this trip to break free from it, and he'd have to do
the ritual one more time. He grabbed the picture from his dashboard and
walked to the bulletin board. His head turned at the sound of another
car's door closing. The fox watched as an older looking skunk got from
her vehicle.

She looked like she needed help, but when her gaze turned to Johnathan,
she only gave him a frown. It was deep, he brow furrowing and her muzzle
twisting. Mabel had been coming here the longest, but she held a certain
disdain towards anyone new arriving. Especially for Johnathan though.

The skunk never said a word to him, but her distaste was enough that
they needed to interact. At least, not now. She'd get better in a bit.

Johnathan walked towards the bulletin board, seeing maybe a hundred
pictures on it. Some were like his, faded photographs that had been
properly filmed. Some were printed papers that looked like someone had
just made it today. One, he recognized as Becka's was just a crayon
colored drawing of her and an ermine.

All were couples.

The fox let out a sigh, turning his head down to his own picture.
\emph{Just one final time.} He whispered that to himself and then took a
tac and thumbed it against the bulletin board. It was done.

He turned, noticing Mabel was standing behind him. With a bow, he
stepped out of the way, noticing her follow him with her eyes. She
stepped forward, placing a picture of herself and another skunk against
the bulletin board. With some impatience, she raised her paw, snapping
her fingers until Johnathan passed her a tac.

She pressed the photo into the corkboard, turning back towards her car
without a word. Johnathan didn't have anything to say himself and just
headed towards his own vehicle. Becka was still leaning against the side
of her wagon. The fox approached her, holding out his paw expectantly.
She gave a half smirk, before pulling her flask from her pocket and
passing it.

He took a small sip of it, whiskers straightening out as soon as the
alcohol touched his tongue. He had to pull it away from himself, gulping
down what was in his maw before coughing. "Jeeeze, Becka. What the
hell?" He said, passing back the flask.

She shrugged and turned towards the rest of the buildings. "It's about
to start,`` she said, noticing some more cars pulling up. ''They better
move fast."

He watched as people rushed to park their vehicles, jumping out and
racing towards the grocery store. Johnathan pulled out his phone,
turning the screen on. It was minutes before 7 am. Like he expected, he
looked at the service signal, only to see there wasn't any. The fox
wasn't sure if it was something with the town itself or if there wasn't
any towers to pick up a signal.

A boar came last, parking his rig and practically jumping out of his
car. He watched as one of the people standing around raced towards him.
The hog was elderly like Mabel, not able to move very fast. A shepherd
grabbed the photo from him and raced towards the board, putting his
photo on it just before the hour struck.

\emph{Ding-dong.}

Jonathan turned his muzzle up towards the front of the grocery store,
noticing the intercom. Then he turned towards the crowd of a dozen that
had gathered. Most of them weren't talking to each other. They didn't
come here to meet strangers, though, he recognized almost all the faces.
There was one new guy, an otter around his age. His muzzle was ripped to
the ground, and he looked foolish.

``Does it really work?'' the otter asked to no one specifically.

The boar, Dylon, let out a sigh, nodding his head up and down. "Yeah, it
works," he said, almost regretfully.

Jonathan blinked, and in that half second, the abandoned grocery store,
once unkept and unloved, shown new again. His ears folded back, never
seeming to catch the moment that it came back to life again. It just
happened so fast. The white building glowed with an eerie shine, like it
was just built a second ago.

The fox turned towards the street, noticing most others had. The entire
town had come to life in a second, the once dirty road now clean. The
lawns in front of the houses were crisp, all the weeds removed and
freshly mowed. Even the park, with its rusted equipment and trashed
grounds was now perfect. It was pleasant. Almost heaven.

To the sound of footfall, Jonathan's ears lifted and he couldn't help
but smile the slightest bit. He watched as a dozen walked from the edge
of town towards the group waiting. Out of the corner of his eye, did he
see the otter trembling. He let out a small gasp, and then shouted,
``Melanie?''

He was the first to leave the group, running as fast as he could towards
another otter. She wore a smile on her face, looking a little confused
to see him so excited. Her paw went up, waving to him like it was just
another day. She was scooped in his arms, and twirled around in circles.
Jonathan knew that feeling once.

Coming just behind the otter was his pine marten. The fifteen year old
boy raised a paw towards the fox, and he smiled back giving him a wave
himself. That's when he remembered what was on his finger, quickly
pulling it off and then reaching to stuff it in his pocket, before he
could though, he noticed he wasn't wear the jeans he came in with.

It was jarring, every time. He was just a little closer to the ground,
but those inches made all the difference. He was wearing the same
clothes as he did in the picture and then turned to look at the rest of
the group. Everyone had changed at the same moment.

Mabel was no longer a hunched hag, and was now standing tall in heels
and a yellow polka dot dress. She looked to be in her thirties or early
forties. The boar had changed similarly, probably the same age as her.
Becka had the biggest transformation of the group. The raccoon was now
just a little cub in a pink top and a white skirt. All of her tattoos,
and piercings, and makeup had disappeared.

``Emily!'' she cried out, giggling like the little school girl she was.
Jonathan saw a white mink, similarly dressed and about the same age as
Becka was now. She immediately raced forward only for the raccoon spin
around and shout out, ``Bet you can't catch me!''

The two cubs started in a sprint as they chased one another around the
town. Jonathan knew that with the regression came the feelings. He
almost had to will those teenage hormones back down, knowing he was an
adult in his twenties. Even as he tried though, he couldn't help but
tear up as the pine marten got to him.

``We're here? Again?'' the mustelid asked, stepping to his side.

Jonathan nodded up and down, choking back a sob as he said, "Yeah,
buddy."

The pine marten looked confused for a second, seeing right through the
front he tried to put up. ``Everything alright, Jon?''

Jonathan nodded his head and shook it, trying to compose himself and
saying, ``Yeah, no. Everything's great.'' He tried to hold himself back,
but those wild teenage emotions got the better of him. He lunged forward
and gabe the marten the tightest hug he could, saying into his neck, "I
missed you so much, Alex. I missed you so much."

Alex returned the hug, not quite as tightly, but did so all the same
with some light pats to his back. "I missed you too, but it's only been
a day?" he said, and then paused as if he was just remembering something
right then. ``Oh, right. It hasn't been just a day, has it?''

Jonathan pulled back from the hug, looking into the marten's eyes. Tears
had blurred his vision, but he blinked then out and said, "No, it's fine
though." Then, unable to stop himself, he pushed Alex into a kiss. They
locked maws for a minute, the fox knowing this was wrong, but couldn't
keep himself from doing it.

Alex returned the kiss, murmuring into his muzzle and when they pulled
apart, he smiled at him brightly. ``Wow, you really did miss me,'' he
joked and that got a smile laugh between the two of them.

``You're such a dork,'' Jonathan said, and then pointed to his vehicle.
``Hey, I got you something.''

The two walked paw in paw, the fox noticing Mabel looking on at them.
She furrowed her brow at them, like she'd never seen two boys hold paws
together. Before she could say anything, a man called from behind,
``Mabel!'' It was loud enough to duck everyone's ears.

Jonathan didn't need to turn back to know who it was. Her husband, or
what he assumed was her husband was a thick skunk with a nasty scowl. He
never said anything nice and ordered her around like an animal. Jonathan
didn't know why Mabel always brought him back, but that was her choice,
and it wasn't his business. She just skipped along towards him, no doubt
to occupy one of the houses to play home in.

All the other couples greeted their friends, family, and loved ones with
sorrowful hugs. Jonathan left them alone to spend time with his pine
marten. He reached into his khaki shorts, grabbing hold of his clicker
in his pocket and unlocked the doors. Alex got up next to the vehicle,
asking, ``This is your truck?''

Jonathan paused a second, looking at it curiously and then remembered,
"Oh right, I had the sedan last time. Yeah, I got a new one for work.
It's pretty good. Speakers are pretty loud." He said trying to joke.

The pine marten just furrowed his brow in confusion, "Don't you work at
the sandwich shop?"

Jonathan waved it off, opening up the passenger side door and grabbing a
walkman and a pair of headphones off the seat. He flipped them around,
showing off a cd case. ``Check this out,'' he said, passing it over.

The pine marten looked like he had more questions, but when he saw the
case, his eyes light up. ``Oh shit, dude! Yonderland's got a new album?''
he asked, flipping it back and forth to look at the tracks.

"Yeah! Thought we could go listen to it together. There's a bench over
at the park," he said, pointing in that direction.

The pine marten's head went up and down quickly, and then he leaned
forward and gave a peck on Jonathan's cheek. They brushed whiskers
together, the fox unable to contain a coo. He murmured into his ear an,
``I love you,'' and then pointed to the grocery store. "Let's get get
something to drink first."

Alex followed by Johnathan's side, but when he noticed that he wasn't
holding his paw, the fox asked, "It's alright. Nobody's gonna bother
us."

He was always a tad more skittish in the closed off places, but
Johnathan didn't want to spend a moment not holding him. He tangled his
fingers between the other's and then stepped through the front of the
grocery store. There were people already inside, though, nobody walked
in.

An older gentleman, a beaver, greeted them as they entered. "Good
morning, sirs," he said bowing his head. He was wearing an old 60s style
white grocer uniform with a matching white cap on his head. "Gonna need
a cart?"

The fox just waved him off, barely mumbling a no and then walking right
past him. Alex, with his ears perked asked, "Do you guys have any
Surge?"

Johnathan was about to interject, but he hadn't needed to. The gopher
just stood puzzled a second, then asked, ``Gonna need a cart?''

Alex stood perplexed, trying to read the man's muzzle. He looked ready
to ask something else, but the fox just tugged his paw. "We'll see what
they got," he said, trying to distract him.

The pine marten didn't fight it, and Johnathan was glad. He knew well
enough that all the \emph{residents} of this town were just shadows or
something. Their interactions were simple, like they were stuck on
repeat. He had tried for a conversation with one once, only for the
shades to revert to lines of dialogue or whatever.

They walked back to the coolers, noticing some more residents just
walking around aimlessly. They'd start from one side of the isle and
work their way down, picking up a loaf of bread and examining it before
putting it back and starting all over. They all were dressed from
another era, making the two boys stick out. None of them seemed to care
though.

``Looks like they only got coke and sprite,'' Johnathan said, grabbing two
sprites. He knew what Alex liked, and passed one to the other boy. He
accepted it eagerly, and they snatched a bag of potato chips from the
shelf before getting to the counter. A doberman was already there,
punching in each soda manually before giving him the total, "That'll be
seventy cents."

Alex whistled, looking down at his soda and saying, "Man, we gotta come
here more often."

That got a snicker from the fox who passed over a dollar bill and said,
``Keep the change.''

The dog snapped open the til, placing the dollar in and then moved to
the exact position he has been in earlier. Though he smiled at the two
of them, there was something in his gaze that let Johnathan know that he
wasn't really looking at them. Just mimicking the idea.

Just as they left, the boar was ambling in with a small cub by his side.
His paw was wrapped around her's, but seemed to grow tighter as they
crossed paths. Johnathan recognized that he did the same, and they eyed
each other cautiously. Alex didn't notice, getting to the small boar's
level and said, ``Hey Shannon, it's good to see you.''

She waved, smiling brightly up at him. "Hey Alex. Daddy and I are
getting hot dogs. We're going to the park," she said before turning to
her father. ``Can Alex and John join us?''

Johnathan watched the older boar's eyes flick over to him, and quickly
interrupted, "We'll be there, but we're gonna be listening to some music
for a bit. If there's any free time, we'll join you two."

That answer seemed to satisfy the group, and the boar gave a small tug
to his kid. When the grocer offered a cart, he took it, placing the cub
inside the basket and started off. Johnathan knew well enough that these
precious moments were fleeting fast, and sharing them was hard to do for
all those that had come.

The walk to the park was short, and there already some occupying it.
Becka and Emily were on the swing set, seeing how high they could go
before jumping off into the air. The otter newcomer had taken a spot in
the shade with his lover. They seemed to be in a deep conversation while
holding onto one another. There was a fox kit on a spring horse rocking
back and forth endlessly. He knew that one was one of the shadows.

Johnathan led the pine marten to an unoccupied park table. Like the dork
he was, he watched Alex crawl up on top of it, rather than use one of
the seats. He did the same, pulling out his keys and used a bottle
opener to rip off the cap. He passed the soda in his paws over to Alex
just as he received the other and did the same.

``Cheers,'' Alex said, extending the bottle.

Johnathan clanked the two against each other and said back, ``Cheers.''

He looked down at the soda with a small hesitation. Usually, he only
drank diet soda nowadays, but there wasn't any in the store ever. Alex
was already down half of his, so he put it to his lips and took a small
sip. To his teenage taste buds, they drink was sweet, way sweeter than
he remembered and he almost ended up spitting it out.

Alex noticed the face he made and laughed out, ``Too fizzy?''

``Something like that,'' he said and then pointed to the cd. "You wanna
open that?"

The pine marten nodded, practically tearing through the plastic cover.
As he pulled out the cd, he asked, "When did this come out? Weren't they
breaking up?"

Johnathan nodded, remembering that the band was ready to split back when
they were teens. They did eventually break up, but came back together a
few years later. Alex wasn't around for that. "Yeah, no. It's a miracle.
It was all just publicity, and they were really working on a new album
all along. Celebs," he lied, shrugging his shoulders.

He flipped open his walkman and took the cd from him before putting it
in. The walkman wasn't easy to find, but he managed to get one online.
Finding authentic headphones like they used to have was impossible, so
when pulled out the earbuds, he was met with more confusion.

``Are those new?'' Alex asked, but Johnathan already had his head bouncing
up and down.

"Yeah. You know my dad. He always likes to get things just as they come
out," he lied again.

He passed the earbud over, and the pine marten took, examined it back
and forth before putting it in his ear. Johnathan pressed the play
button, and they just listened to the music. Alex immediately started
bobbing his head up and down to the beat of the drums. The fox just
closed his eyes and enjoyed the moment.

They only got through two songs before the pine marten let out a sharp
squeak. Johnathan was about to ask what was wrong before he felt the
small pinch of his own tail being tugged. He let out his own yipe,
flinging his head backwards only to see Becka and Emily giggling to
themselves. They each had a tail in their paw, letting go when they were
spotted and taking a step back like they might be chased.

``Hey! Don't do that,'' the fox said, pulling his tail back towards
himself.

Alex, seeming to be annoyed, said, "Don't you two have matches to play
with or something?"

The two girls fell into their own giggle fit before Becka said, "What're
you two love birds doing?"

Johnathan glowered at them and said, "Can we get a little privacy. We're
just listening to music."

``And kissing,'' Alex added.

The fox turned his head and before he could say a word, the pine marten
gave him a quick peck on his lips. Johnathan smiled and pecked back,
only to be met with two girls screaming, ``Ewwwwww.'' He caught them at
the corner of his eye, making mock gagging faces before running away,
squealing to one another.

Then Alex asked, ``Where's Caleb and Ashe? Haven't seen them in ever.''

A frown grew over the fox's muzzle, but he quickly fixed it into a half
grin. "They're busy this weekend. I think Ashe is with her family and
Caleb's probably jerking himself off in his room."

They shared a laugh, Alex slapping Johnathan's arm. "We should call them
and see if they wanna hang," he insisted.

The fox had to hold back a wince, and he shook his head. "Nah, I wanna
spend time with you alone," he said, and then leaned a paw forward to
stroke at his arm.

Alex looked at the touch, eyebrows furrowing as he asked, "Are
you\ldots{} are you not telling me something?"

A pained expression fell over the fox's muzzle, but the sound of
rustling distracted the two of them. Johnathan turned to see the otters,
the man still on the ground while the woman got to her feet. "Melanie,
please, just hear me out," he said, trying to stand up.

She shook her head, wiping tears against the back of her arm. "No. No,
no, no, this isn't right. You shouldn't be doing this," she said,
starting to take steps away from him.

Johnathan had seen this before, in others. It was something he
specifically avoided with Alex, afraid of what his own reaction might
be. Nobody had told the otter than it doesn't really go well when people
are honest, but no one really talked to each other about the proper
customs. He hoped that they would work things out, but with the way the
woman was walking away, he didn't think so.

``What's their deal?'' Alex asked, staring at the two of them.

Johnathan saw the another couple, a kangaroo and a muskrat approaching
the park. The kangaroo he recognized as one of those that came to
Mayberry, the muskrat, one of the ones brought back. The kangaroo too
saw the commotion and turned a knowing look to the fox. They shared a
nod and he tapped Alex on the wrist. "Hey, wanna get something to eat?
There's a diner right down the way."

The other teenager turned his head to him and then slowly nodded up and
down. ``Yeah, sure. Let's do that.''

The fox grabbed him by the paw and helped him off the table. They walked
down the road, and that's when he saw Mabel with a little table in front
of a house. She had a white and red checkered apron on and two oven
mitts over her arms. There was a tray on the table, as well as a thick
glass pitcher next to it. Her paw went up, waving to the boys.

Becka and Emily came right between the boys, racing as fast as they
could towards the table. Some others had saw Mabel setting up and
approached her as well. ``Cookies and Lemonade for everyone,'' she said,
beaming a smile.

The boar and his daughter were walking towards them too. He had a big
paper bag in his paw, and ushered his kid forward. ``Get me one too,'' he
said and just as she grabbed a cookie off the tray, he added, "And what
do we say?"

She looked up at the skunk, smile wide, as she said, "Thanks Mrs.
Mabel."

Beck and Emily joined along, pouring themselves cups of lemonade.
``Thanks Mrs. Mabel!''

She seemed happy, even turning up to look at Johnathan and Alex and said
with a fake smile, ``You're free to them too.''

Johnathan was ready to tell her no thanks, not wanting anything from the
skunk, but Alex was already walking forward and grabbed one. He took a
large bite of it and said with his mouthful, "Thanks, Mabel. These are
delicious."

She rolled her eyes, shaking her head as she said, "Boy. Don't speak
with your mouth full of food."

Johnathan grabbed one for himself, figuring he might as well try it. In
all the years that he came here, he never wanted to interact with her.
She had older views that just reminded him too much of why he was here
to begin with. Still, he held it up and said anyways, ``Thanks.''

She gave a small bow, eyes on the boys like she was hiding her disgust.
``Mabel!'' Screamed a voice from inside the house. "Mabel! Get me another
fucking beer! Where are you?"

The skunk turned her head, frantically bowing to everyone before
returning to her front door. In all the time Johnathan had been here,
he'd never seen Mr. Mabel leave the house once he got in it. He didn't
seem like a very nice man and was glad he stayed inside.

``C'mon,'' the boar said to his daughter, pretending that he didn't know
what went on in that house. ``Let's go grill some hotdogs.''

Johnathan pointed towards the diner, and they continued down the road. A
bell jangled as the fox pushed open the door. Inside was fairly busy, a
mix of both residents and visitors in the booths. A waitress was dealing
with some shades, two ferrets seated across from each other, pretending
to take their order. When she finished with a paper pad, the border
collie walked over to them and asked, ``Table for two?''

Johnathan nodded and they were led to an open booth and they got in on
the same side, letting Alex go in first. Two menus were placed in front
of them and the boys flipped then open. Though he suggested the diner,
Johnathan wasn't actually very hungry. Alex seemed to flip through the
menu, though, he didn't really look interested in the food. There was
something else on his mind.

``Hey hun,'' the fox asked, pointing at a picture on the menu. "You wanna
split a milkshake?" he said, trying to insert as much enthusiasm as he
could into the question.

Alex's head turned, a smile breaking his thoughtfulness. "You mean,
like, the way they do it in all those movies?" He stuck his tongue out
and said, ``That's silly.''

Johnathan pecked him on the lips and said, "You're silly. C'mon, I'll
even let you have the cherry on top."

Alex agreed and when the waitress came back around, they told her they
wanted one chocolate shake, two straws. Jonathan leaned against the
other teenager, resting his head on his shoulder. He cuddled up to them
as they waited for the dessert. When it arrived, they were nestled into
one another and she placed in front of them without a single word.

``I've always wanted to do this,'' Johnathan said, noticing the two
cherries on top. He said, taking off one and holding it over the
mustelid's muzzle.

Alex snatched it between his teeth, pulling the cherry from the stem and
the fox just flicked it on the table. He let him do the same, getting
fed the cherry before he grabbed one of the straws in the shake. They
started giddly into one another's eyes as they sipped their drink
together. Johnathan felt like he was falling in love all over again.

He noticed Alex's eyes turn to the side before he pulled off the straw
and asked, ``Hey, hun?'' Johnanthan followed his gaze, seeing the waitress
taking the order from the two ferrets again. "Why does she keep taking
their order?"

She jotted something on her notepad again and then walked away from them
back towards the kitchen. ``Maybe they're having a hard time deciding,''
Johnanthan blurted out, reaching a paw up to pull his muzzle back to
him.

Alex fought him, pushing his paw off him and shaking his head. "No, she
keeps writing something down and then walking away. She's done it three
times now,`` he said, touching a claw to his temple. ''Why am I here? We
didn't--- this isn't where we live. I don't remember coming here."

Johnanthan started to panic, his heart picking up speed in his chest.
``We're just, um, visiting. It's fine. Don't worry about it,'' he said,
trying to calm the marten down.

The more Alex tried to think, the more frustrated he was becoming. "I
need to think. Just let me get some air," he said, trying to scootch out
of the bench.

Johnanthan didn't move, holding up a paw against the pine marten's chest
and keeping him put. ``No, let's just finish our milkshake and---''

Before he could have anticipated it, Alex pushed his shoulder against
the fox's chest, forcing him off of the cushion. He reached out,
grabbing hold of the table and rocking it enough to knock the milkshake
over. The glass spilt all over the table, but Alex didn't stop. He just
shoved Johnathan until he was left stumbling out of the booth.

``Alex, wait!'' he cried out, watching the mustelid get to his feet.

Alex shook his head, turning in a circle and looking throughout the
diner. "No, I don't want to be here. I want to see family! Where is
everyone? Where the hell are we? I want to go home, right now!" he cried
out, then stormed his way

Johnathan was left leaning against the counter opposite the booth. The
border collie waitress scurried over, looking at the mess. "Uh oh,
looking like you had an accident," she said in the same cheery tone she
used when taking their order.

The fox looked over at her, brow furrowed and murmured, ``Oh, fuck off.''

The dog looked confused at that, head cocking as she tried to think of a
response. Johnanthan turned his attention to the rest of the patrons.
The shades just stayed put, forever in their own conversation; the real
people kept to themselves, whispering things to each other and trying to
keep their own partners from noticing the outburst. When waitress
finally did say something, all she asked was, ``Would you like your tab?''

He just shook his head in disbelief. Trying to compose himself, he
pulled out his wallet and placed a dollar bill on the table. He didn't
even bother with an apology as he walked out of the diner. Alex was
stomping away, head not even turning back.

Johnathan picked up his pace as he started a jog towards Alex. He didn't
go into a full sprint, trying to think of what he might say to him. At
first, his teenage mind began to put together more lies; twist this
reality further to keep things together. But he wasn't a teenager
anymore, and he had to fight those instincts. He didn't come here to
keep this going any longer than it already had.

``Alex, wait!'' the fox cried out, extending a paw into the air.

Alex slowed his trot gradually, back still turned. When finally did
stop, he turned around with his ears folded back. There were some tears
already running down the sides of his muzzle. There was pained
expression on his face, and he asked as Johnanthan approached, "What's
going on?"

The fox hadn't noticed it, but tears were already building up at the
corners of his eyes. Alex didn't fight him as he was pulled into a hug.
They embraced each other tightly. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to shove
you," Alex whispered, but Johnanthan had apologies of his own.

"No, I'm sorry. For everything. Alex, I think it's time to tell you the
truth," he said, pulling back from the hug.

Alex stared back, some determination in his eyes and then nodded his
head. Johnanthan led them back to the park bench. They sat on top of it,
Becka and Emily still playing in the distance. The boar was standing
over a grill, taking one of the hot dogs off and placing it in a bun
before handing it over to his daughter. The otters had calmed down, but
now were quietly huddled into one another.

They sat there for a minute, Alex letting Johnanthan think over what he
wanted to say patiently. There was a question on his mind though, and
when he couldn't hold it in any longer, he asked, "We're not fifteen
anymore, are we?"

Johnanthan nodded his head up and down, and said, "No, at least I'm
not.`` Then he turned to him, taking a small sigh before saying, ''It's
been almost twelve years since."

Alex looked down at his paws, then back over to the fox. He studied him,
eyeing him up and down before asking, "Twelve years? It feels like it's
only been a few weeks."

The fox reached a paw up and stroked at Alex's muzzle, feeling his
fingers through his fur. He did the same, running his palm to cup at his
cheek. Everything felt so real, but it was just the curse. Johnanthan
knew that and nodded his head again before saying, "When we were
fifteen, some guys saw us together."

Johnanthan had to work out a sob, before continuing, "They didn't like
us being together, the way they were. When they got physical, you fought
back." He looked over Alex's muzzle, remembering how he looked after the
fight. Tears were flowing openly now. "They hit you. A lot. And when
they left, you were really messed up. I had to pick you up off the
ground and you told me it was fine. I tried to say that we needed to go
to the hospital, but you just said you were a little dizzy. You didn't
want you parents to worry, so we went back to my place after."

Alex nodded his head up and down, as if he was agreeing with his own
decision at the time. Johnanthan's head shook, and his muzzle twisted up
bitterly. "We went to sleep on my bed, and in the morning, you just---
You wouldn't--- You were sooo still and---"

Johnanthan's entire body crumbled on Alex's, and the teenage boy wrapped
his arms around him. The fox was bawling into his shirt and fur. He
heard the sounds of shushes. Through it, Jonathan kept repeating, "We
didn't do anything to anyone. We hurt anybody."

Alex continued to stroke his back, remaining silent. Most times, it
didn't go well when someone had been informed of their passing. He just
remained there though, comforting Jonathan until he had the strength to
continue. When he finally lifted his muzzle to see him, the pine
marten's own face was matter in tears.

He reached a paw up, wiping away at some of it, but Alex just pulled
himself back. The other boy let go of him, wiping off his own face with
the back of his wrist before asking, ``What did you do?''

Jonathan hung his muzzle down slightly with his brow furrowed. "I
obsessed. When I couldn't grieve, I just went to message boards, digging
deeper and deeper until I found this place. People come here with a
picture of themselves and the one they loved, and on this day, we get
reunited as we used to be."

Alex lifted his head, looking around at the people. It was like he could
finally see them: Becka and Emily, the boar and his daughter, Mabel and
her husband. Jonathan could see Alex thinking, the pieces all coming
together. Then he turned his head down to face Jonathan's and said, "You
can't keep doing this."

That got a wounded sob to release out of the fox's chest, but he nodded
up and down in agreement. Then, he reached down into his pocket and
pulled out the thing he'd really meant to show him. "I'm sorry. It
just--- it just happened."

Alex reached down into Jonathan's palm, pulling up a ring to his muzzle.
He twirled it around between his fingers, examining it carefully. His
bottom lip sucked into his muzzle and he closed it eyes tight. His lungs
filled slowly and then he let it all out in a long exhale. "Tell me
about him. Or her," he whispered.

He returned the ring and Jonathan sat up straight. "His name is Sasha.
We met a little after I took my trip here last year. He was a friend of
a friend and everyone has always been trying to set me up," he said that
and gave a choked laugh. "I didn't really intend to meet anyone\ldots{}
after you."

Alex didn't laugh at that. He shook his head and wiped away some more
tears. ``You deserve someone nice. Someone who will treat you right.''

Johnanthan closed his eyes and fought back crumbling into a mess again.
``It was supposed to be you,'' he said.

Alex just turned his head towards the distance, not really looking at
anything before saying, ``I think that would have been nice.''

Jonanthan could see into his mind's eye. He was thinking about all the
things he missed out on: finishing high school, learning to drive a car,
going to college, getting married, having cubs of his own with the fox
that he loved. It was all so clear as he just looked into nothing. Then
he blinked and shook his muzzle before asking, "What happened with
Caleb, Ashe, and my family?"

The fox's ears went back, and he said, "They all moved on with their
lives. Me and your sister got really close for a while. We don't have to
talk about it though."

With some strength, the pine marten shook his head and straightened
himself out. He turned his full attention to Jonathan and said, "No,
actually, I think I want this."

So Johnathan pulled out his phone, something that was a little confusing
to Alex at first. Technology had really changed over the decade he'd
been gone. They flipped through photos, things that he'd kept and
explained what happened to the group. Caleb has gone off into the
military, and Alex joked, ``Of course,'' right after he'd mentioned it.

Ashe had cubs of her own now, having gotten married as soon as she had
her high school diploma. When Alex asked if it was Russel, the guy she'd
been seeing at the time, Johnathan furrowed a brow. He'd forgotten who
that was, realizing only now that Ashe had gone through a couple boys
before she found her future husband.

When he asked about his family, Alex only knew so much. They didn't want
to see Johnanthan much after the memorial, and that was understandable.
He did however, spend time with his sister, who was a freshman at the
time. By the time she was a junior, she'd come out of the closet herself
and last he'd saw of her, she was moving out west.

``Ha, figured she was a lesbo,'' Alex said with a chuckle.

Jonathan elbowed the pine marten's side, and said, trying to hold back a
laugh, "You can't say that nowadays. Hell, probably shouldn't have been
saying that to begin with."

He nodded up and down, a smile on his muzzle. "Yeah, sorry. I'm glad she
figured it out. Maybe you can find her again online. See what she's up
to," he said, blinking out some tears before wiping his nose dry. Then
he grabbed the walkman and asked, ``Do you wanna finish the album?''

Alex tried to hold onto a smile, though he could see the sorrow in his
eyes. Jonathan nodded and said, ``I'd like that, very much.''

So they sat together, shoulder to shoulder for the first song they left
off at. Then they traded positions back and forth. Sometimes it was Alex
cradling Jonathan. Sometimes it was Jonathan, holding Alex's head in his
lap. For the last song, they held each other into a hug and whispered
their love yous into one another's fur.

When they were finished, Alex insisted that they go around to everyone
in Mayberry. He gave one finally a shake to the boar, and a tight hug to
his daughter, Shannon. They stopped by Beck and Emily, drawing chalk
paintings on a driveway. Alex complimented them, ruffling each of their
headfurs before wishing them well. Finally, they each took a cookie for
what remained on Mabel's tray and nodded a goodbye.

Jonathan walked towards the bulletin board, showing him his picture.
Alex laughed and said, ``I remember that.''

``Yeah, I do too,'' he said, and then turned to face the pine marten.
``Alex, what happened to us--- you, was so unfair.''

Again, tears began to work up in the fox's eyes, but Alex reached up,
cupping his cheek. ``Yeah, maybe,'' he started, nodding his head up and
down. ``But what you're doing to yourself isn't fair to you.'' They hugged
one final time, tighter than they ever had before the pine marten broke
the hug and said, ``It's time to move on.''

Jonathan wiped away the last of his tears and agreed. Then he stepped
the board and grabbed at the picture. He took off the tac, pausing
briefly as he turned to face Alex. He hadn't disappeared when he removed
the picture, to some relief, but he knew their time was short now.

They got into the truck together, and Jonathan turned on the engine.
With some care, he put the picture onto his dashboard and immediately
the smile he made to himself. Then he pulled out of the parking lot and
onto the road, staring at where the town ended and the forest began.

Alex, straightening himself on the seat, looking forward past the trees.
There was a bit of worry on his muzzle and he asked, "What'll happen
next?"

Jonathan looked at his paw on the armrest and he reached out to hold it.
They tangled their fingers together and the fox said, "I'm not sure, but
whatever happens, we'll see each other again, when the time's right."

Alex gulped as the car started forward Then, with some bravery, he
turned back to face Jonathan and said, ``Live your best life, buddy.''

And right as they crossed the paved road onto the dirt path that led out
of Mayberry, there was no paw to hold onto anymore. Jonathan wasn't a
teenager anymore. He had to adjust himself on the seat, getting used to
his body again. All the magic, the curse, was gone. The only thing he
had left was the memories, saying goodbye to Mayberry one final time.

It was a few hours later that Jonathan arrived back to his house. He
stepped inside wearily with the picture in a frame he'd picked up along
the way. Sasha was sitting on the couch with a tablet in paw. The
ringtail smiled up at him and asked, "Hey babe. I thought you weren't
gonna be home til late?"

Jonathan took a seat next to him, and Sasha got close. "Yeah, plans
changed," he said, accepting the warmth as his fiance leaned into him.

The ringtail looked at the picture, recognizing his fox, but not the
pine marten. ``What's that?'' he asked, with some curious excitement.

Jonathan took a breath in, holding the picture for him to see it better.
Then he exhaled slowly and started his story with, "I need to tell you
something. This was my boyfriend, Alex."

\chapter*{A Simple Guide to Sugar-Free Lemonade by Arthur Felice.}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{A Simple Guide to Sugar-Free Lemonade by Arthur Felice.}
\markboth{A Simple Guide to Sugar-Free Lemonade by Arthur Felice.}{Dirt Coyote}

\emph{A Simple Guide to Sugar-Free Lemonade}

By Arthur Felice

Today, I'm gonna teach you one of my favorite summertime recipes:
Sugar-free lemonade. Now, the second thing on your mind is probably,
``Arthur, it's February. Why're you writing a summertime recipe now?''
while the first probably being, "An asteroid the size of Burbank is
about to hit the planet. Who the fuck cares?" And to that I have two
answers: The first being, these things usually are contracted in advance
and are released when they're needed, not when they're written. The
second answer is because I don't really care to start looting. The 45
inch LCD on my entertainment center has always been more than enough.

Well, since I've been paid already, I might as well write the article.
Keeps the fingers busy.

Now, my mom is probably spinning like a top in her grave at this very
moment. Sugar-free lemonade?!? She would not have approved of that and
would chide me relentlessly about it. That wouldn't be the only thing
she got on my case about. No, she was a very opinionated woman, noble
stoat that she was, and was particularly voiceful when she caught me
with my first boy.

It was a spring, quite like this, when Kendrick Sanchez was sitting on
my bed shirtless. He was a couple years older than me, a very handsome
dingo, and the only other boy in my high school that would do things
like \emph{that} with me. He had one paw under my shirt and I had, well,
not to get too spicy, but I had my paw on something else. Our muzzles
were locked together when my mother walked in on me and Kendrick.
Screamed like bloody murder, and the dingo was promptly chased out of
the house. Didn't even have time to get his shirt back on.

At first, it was the gay thing she was an old upsetti spagetti about.
Certainly couldn't tell father any of it. It became our secret, and she
would scold me about it whenever we had a minute alone. Needless to say,
afterwards, there was a no-closed-doors policy in the house whenever I
had any boys over.

Eventually she simmered down and was more concerned about the age
difference. It didn't matter much. That fling only lasted a season and I
was left mostly boyfriendless throughout the rest of high school. All I
had was a few online interactions and the entirety of the internet to
explore myself.

Anyways, onto the lemonade, if there's one thing that mother and I could
agree on, is that you don't just dump your sweetener into a pitcher like
a feral. No, you must create a simple syrup and like the name implies,
it's pretty simple. Well, you'd think that. Boiling a pot of water
wasn't on my list of skills when I was in college.

Being a teenager in the dorms and having my own space, I was quite the
mess. Yes, I was one of \emph{those} boys. Dirty clothes on the floor in
one pile. Clean clothes on the floor in another. It's embarrassing to
think back on how many hookups I had back then, having to push trash off
my bed before diving into it.

There was Bruce, a jack rabbit who was my age, who got me started on
being presentable. He was a history major, or something like that. Real
prissy type. We met at our school's LGBTQ+ club and I brought him over
for a quick romp, and would you believe it? He refused!

Saw the state I was living in and plans changed quickly. He promptly
left, leaving me a little bewildered only to come back not ten minutes
later with a basket full of cleaning supplies. He shoved a trash bag
into my paws and started instructing me where to clean up. Pulled out a
sponge for himself too and began wiping down my desk, every now and then
adding a few choice words my direction. Swear, he nearly fainted when we
opened up my closet.

No, we didn't have that quick romp. Never did, actually. Maybe a handy
j, once or twice. But we became friends and part of the condition to our
friendship was for me to perform some level of upkeep to my room. Even
after I graduated and we parted ways, did I keep those habits. Don't
have to worry about tripping over trash anymore.

Oh yes, onto the simple syrup. Since we won't be using any sugar in this
recipe, you can easily replace it with Splenda. I do. Exactly one part
artificial sweetener and one part water. Get the water boiling and then
pull it off the heat to add the substitute. Stir it all together and
remove any sediment remaining, and voila, you've got your syrup.

Now, by this point, you should have already had your pitcher out. If
you're not seven years old, then I'd recommend a glass pitcher. If you
are seven or just particularly clumsy, a plastic one should do you well
enough. I think there's a taste it leaves, but I can be a little picky.

I certainly wasn't picky when it came to men. I'd probably gone through
a hundred or so by the time I was in my mid twenties. The grey in my fur
wasn't always there! Choose to believe it or not, but this mustelid
could swing these hips like nothing. My tail got allllll over the place.

Then Jett showed up and, boy oh boy, he was quite the competition.
Another stoat, probably could have been mistaken for my brother if I had
one, and he sure liked to get in-between me and any boy I was trying to
hook up with. Dunno what got his rocks off, but if I was chatting with a
guy, he'd butt in. If I was dancing with some hot horny wolf, he'd steal
him away. Try to buy a stud a drink? Jett was there with two in his
paws, neither for me.

Eventually, I began to pick up on his little game and suddenly, I was
the one stealing boys from him. Sometimes it didn't even matter if I
liked the guy or not. Just as long as he didn't leave with him was all
that mattered to me. One night, though, it got particularly bad.

Can you imagine, two grown-ass adult stoats in the middle of a nightclub
getting physical? I wouldn't call it a fight. That involves kicking and
punching, claws and fangs, and maybe even a little tail biting. No, we
just started to slap one another, batted at our paws, and pulled each
other's whiskers. It only ended when a bouncer, a gruff looking
wolverine, lifted us both by the nape of our necks and hurled us out
onto the street.

It wasn't my proudest moment I remember. Don't even have to remember it
at all. If you are good with the internet and know how to search things,
I'm sure it wouldn't be too hard to find a video online. Got over a
thousand hits, half of those probably being my friends watching it on
repeat and laughing their asses off.

Thankfully, things cooled down from there, and me and Jett became less
competitive. There was still some competition, but wasn't until a
twinkish husky asked, ``Why not both?'' did we realize we didn't need to
compete at all. Things got really interesting from then on. That night,
we split that dog open like a cantaloupe.

We became quite the devious duo, Me and Jett. Can't believe it took us
so long to team up. It was all very well documented too. Again, if you
are good with the internet and know how to search things\ldots{} well,
you might find what you're looking for. That lasted a while. Even when
Jett got sick, he still wanted to go out with me. He couldn't stay up
quite as late, and then eventually, he couldn't stay up at all. I stayed
with him until the very end.

I'll see you soon, buddy.

Real soon.

Now, the lemon is the key to any good lemonade, so that's where you're
going to want to spend most of your time on. You could simply go to the
store and grab a few off the shelf, sure, but what's the fun in that?
You wanna make something that'll really brighten someone's day, and that
requires fresh ingredients.

Unfortunately, with that asteroid coming in a few days, you might not
have time to wait for them to ripen in June. Thankfully though, they
tend to produce all year and you just have to take some time and go out
looking for the right one. I know I did.

It was in my early thirties, out with my friends having a gay old time.
Yes, a bunch of us queers being giddy out paying money to pick fruit for
fun. I bet that sounds awfully exciting to you, but it was with my
friends and I made the most of it.

But it was there that I met my Rico. He was with his boyfriend at the
time, a fox named George. We found ourselves underneath the same lemon
tree, twisting and inspecting the fruit. It was small conversations at
first and, well, we ended up exchanging numbers. Supposedly him and his
boyfriend were new to the area and wanted to meet some locals.

Oh boy, you wouldn't think me and my friends were in our thirties. Those
queens tore me apart relentlessly. ``What's his name?'' "You think they're
open?`` ''I saw the way you were looking at him.`` ''Someone's got a crush."
``Arthur and Rico sitting in a tree.'' They teased me non-stop and I was,
well, I was as giddish as they made me out to be.

So of course, when me and the weasel started spending more time
together, our feelings for one another grew. His boyfriend George was,
to say the least, not quite a fan of that. Now, I'll say, never once did
we fool around. That was not the way I went about things. I'm a
gentleman first.

But, I'd be lying if I didn't \emph{hope} for certain things. And maybe,
once or twice, after finishing off a bottle or two of Moscato, did I
mention some of those certain things to him. Maybe passed out with my
head in his lap from time to time. Oh, and, well, not to mention that
kiss we shared.

Alright, alright, so I'm not a \emph{perfect} gentleman. Hell, probably
could be described as quite the scoundrel. We chalked it up to the wine
and kept it between us\ldots{} for a while. I'll never forget the day
the fox showed up to my door. I greeted him kindly. George kneed me in
the pecker so hard, I felt my gonads knock into the back of my throat.
Couldn't get it up for a month!

The two of them lasted a while after that, and, despite it all, we ended
up being rather cordial. Actually, we still see him, and I wonder what
he and Torrence are up to at this very moment. I guess now is a better
time than ever to give him a ring and apologize for being such a twat.

Back to the recipe. To bring it all together depends on your tastes.
Some like a lemonade that'll punch you in the face and steal your
wallet. I find about four or five large lemons to do the trick, but I
wouldn't go over eight, even if you do like it a little tart.
Personally, I enjoy mine to be on the sweeter side of things.

As sweet as that first night that Rico came to me. He had split things
off with George, and later that week, he came to my house. I don't know
what I could have expected to happen when I answered. Don't think I
could have ever imagined him to just scoop my muzzle into his pawpads
and pull me right into a kiss. Then he stepped through my front door and
closed it behind him.

A year after that, we got married and I didn't have to worry about any
other Arthurs coming around to shake things up. We've been together ever
since, and I guess, we'll be together always. Even now, he's sitting on
the porch, waiting for me and a pitcher of sugar-free lemonade. Just
pour it all together, add some ice, and you'll be good to go.

I'm not afraid. No, I guess that's not true. I don't think there's any
last minute Deux Ex Machina coming to save the day. I'm not worried, is
what I mean to say. About how things turned out or about how things will
turn out. Things happened the way they did and there's not much else
that can be said.

I do hope though. I hope that there's gonna be some fallout shelter that
survives and when its residents come out, there'll be something waiting
for them. I hope that if some green aliens stop by our planet, they see
that someone was here. Hell, I hope that the jellyfish in the sea evolve
enough to step out of the water a hundred thousand years in the future
to start things up all over again.

If someone digs through our rubble, I hope that there's a server they
can repair and find this article. When they do, they'll have a headstart
on one recipe they can use for themselves. And maybe, just maybe,
they'll see my story and know a little about us and a little bit about
me.

It's time that I go and watch one of the few remaining sunsets left for
me. I'll be holding onto Rico the entire time. Before I go though, I
guess I should leave you all the recipe. Thanks for sticking around this
long. See you on the other side.

Ingredients for Sugar-free Lemonade:

Four cups of water

One cup of ice

Two cups of Splenda/water simple syrup

Some parts mistakes

More parts growing up

All the love in the world

And four to five freshly squeezed lemons

%\includegraphics[width=4.76163in,height=7.14807in]{media/image3.png}


\chapter*{You Can Watch Me Dance}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{You Can Watch Me Dance}
\markboth{You Can Watch Me Dance}{Dirt Coyote}

\textbf{{[}Editor's Note: Story still in progress{]}}

\emph{For My Partner}

It'd been months, \emph{months}, since River had gone out! Not, like,
going out to the movies or snagging a cup of froyo walking home from
grocery shopping. Real going out like he used to when he was a kid, not
that he still wasn't one. Late twenties were the same as early twenties
and if anyone asked, the genet was still twenty-two anyways. The black
markings on his sharp short muzzle, as well as the spots on his arms and
neck had been plucked of any stray grey furs. Only the bouncer and
bartender needed to see his ID and if any of his friends had anything
different to say about it, he'd have one less friend to contradict him.

Not that River had to worry about anyone speaking up about anything
nowadays though. All of the genet's friends had partnered up and were
done joining him and his late night escapades. Now, they were more
interested in tending vegetable gardens and noisy cubs rather than
hangovers and mysterious bruises. Actually, being honest, the only
reason why he'd not gone out in so long was because he didn't like to go
out on his own.

Thankfully, out of the goodness of his soul, his boyfriend decided to
give up his Friday night Dungeons \& Dorkons session so they could do
stuff with fairies and queens that didn't involve a constitution check.
Victor stood next to him in line with his smartphone just short of
making contact with his glasses. The skunk had on the same beige slacks
and light blue oxford shirt he'd worn to work that morning. His modest
vanilla cardigan only tagged along on his shoulder after River asked him
if he wanted to try and spice it up just a little bit for him. That was
the best he was gonna get.

At least he went all out on his outfit tonight. As soon as he finished
scrubbing the last dish at Peppered Patty's, he flew by his manager and
raced home to clean out the detergent and grease from his fur. Though
his yellow tank top didn't hang quite as well as when he bought it a few
years back, it still covered up his belly so long as he didn't stretch
his arms high above his head. The pair of skinny jeans he'd laid out on
the bed were still in that exact position even now. After half an hour
trying to make them fit, Victor threatened to stay inside if he had to
wait much longer. A loose pair of white cargo shorts substituted.

Not a major setback! Actually, he thought that the cargo shorts felt
just as sexy if not even more sexy than the jeans were. River's legs
were his real money makers, besides his pristine smile and piercing
yellow eyes, of course. If he'd worn his jeans, no one could have
admired the pattern of his chocolate spots wrapped around his tan legs.
They started just above his black socks and travelled alllllllll the way
up before teasingly disappearing beneath his shorts.

``Babe,'' River whispered, giving a cough and nudge to the skunk at his
side.

Victor pulled the phone away from his nose and looked around startled.
Furrowing his brow, he cocked his head at genet before turning back to
his phone. That earned him another nudge, one hard enough to nearly set
him off-balance and out of the line altogether. ``What?'' he spurted,
pointing towards the stallions in front of them. ``We're not at the
front yet.''

``They'll be inside in a second,'' River whined, pointing just past the
horses to the wolverine standing next to the door. ``The bouncer doesn't
wanna see you playing a game on your phone.''

Contradictory to River's panicking, the wolverine was engaged in a
relatively friendly conversation with the two stallions. Smiling and
boisterous, the doorman's entire upper body bobbed around as he talked
just as much with his paws as his words. Annoyed but cordial, Victor
stuffed his phone into his pocket, but not without getting the last word
in. ``Babe, I think his job is to just charge us and make sure we're
presentable.''

At the mention of being presentable, River sneaked a peek to his
partner's feet. Even though he knew for certain that he'd made sure that
the skunk didn't trade for his more comfortable tennis shoes, he
couldn't double check enough times. Thankfully, he really was wearing
the slick leather loafers River had bought for him when he'd had his
first interview out of college. It might have been a little dressy for a
start-up, but they were appropriate here in front of the BlackSky
nightclub.

Victor rhythmically patted at his slacks, not quite sure what to do with
his paws when there wasn't a phone in them. Stroking his own tail
soothingly, River wasn't much better at that himself, though at least he
could keep it quiet. They'd already gone over their days and there
wasn't a show that they didn't watch together. Several times he felt
flustered trying to even think of something remotely interesting and
just before he was going to tell Victor that he could have his phone out
just to stop the patting, a large group came roaring out of the club
with laughter.

The bouncer turned his head to the group, letting them through the door
before nodding the stallions inside. ``Cash or card?'' he asked River
with one paw extended while the other curled a tablet.

``Card,'' River said as he reached back and pulled out his wallet. He
slid his credit card out and thumbed between him and Victor to signal
they were together. At the doorman's glance between the two of them,
Victor smiled a polite smile and waved a waist high paw to confirm they
were together. Something about the modestly dressed six foot tall nerdy
skunk with the five foot nothing slutty genet wasn't clicking
immediately but he shrugged it off. The wolverine took the card and
nodded as he swiped it but before he could return the card to River, the
genet had his ID out for him to check.

``Hmm?'' the wolverine questioned, not quite sure what he was being
handed until he caught River's face on the card. ``Oh, right!'' he
exclaimed a little too loudly, pretending to glance at the date of birth
before trying to hand the card back again. ``Went through. You two can
head in.'' he said without even humoring the idea of checking to see if
the skunk was of age. His smile remained polite even though River's was
pointedly plastic and flippant for him to see.

``Bitch,'' River muttered as they walked past the coat check, but Victor
ignored it rather than engage with his pettiness.

Inside was considerably more comfortable than the cramped line outside.
Victor was working his way towards the tabled area, spotting one that
was tall and had seats. Despite the fact they waited longer in line than
it took them to walk to the BlackSky, there were several tables open and
plenty of space between them. In fact, everybody in that line could
barge inside right now and River wouldn't be able to tell the
difference.

Grumbling, the short genet had to practically scale the chair to sit in
its seat while his boyfriend flumped in his chair, looking exhausted
already. Waiting in line took a little bit out of him, but River still
couldn't hold back his excitement, his tail lashing about like a cub at
an amusement park. Crystalline bulbs hung from black panels made the
ceiling look like the stars they couldn't see in the light radiated
city. Dim blue fluorescent tubes lined the walls to soften in a soothing
dusk all around them. Just under a large but muted incandescent sphere
meant to be the moon was the bar glowing in a kaleidoscope of patterns
and colors.

Surrounding the bar were kids just like himself scrambling to get a
drink. There was a menagerie of lifted tails. Foxes, huskies, wolves,
cheetahs, skunks, ermines, foxes, tigers, lions, stallions, leopards,
ferrets, bunnies, and foxes bent over to flirt with the bartenders while
also presenting the goods to anyone bold enough to stare. Those not
drinking were past the bar and tables shaking what they had out towards
the back. Base blasting from the speakers near the stage were strong
enough to vibrate the table, but the music itself was distant while in
the seating area.

``I'm gonna get a drink,'' Victor said, not quite as captured by the
atmosphere. He stood slowly, still sore from work and the line, but when
he tried to turn to the bar, River coughed blatantly and cleared his
throat. ``What? I mean- ugh, I was implying I was going to get us
\emph{both} drinks. Corona light with lime, right?''

``Corona?'' River nearly shouted, his head cocked in disbelief.

Confused, Victor's muzzle twisted and he pointed back at the bar. ``You
always drink Coronas on Friday. With the little key lime wedg---''

``---on D\&D night! And that's just because the last time that I drank
too much, you killed my character. We're out and about inside of a night
club!'' River practically threw his arms into the air, ducking them back
down as soon as he felt cold air against the fur on his tummy and
backside. ``I want a Tokyo Iced Tea.''

``A Tokyo Tea? Seriously?'' Victor laughed while folding his arms.

Nodding his head up and down excitedly, he explained, ``That's a long
island with an added shot of Midori.''

``No, I---, mmm, I know what that is. I'm,'' the words fumble for a
second, now realizing River's request was serious. ``We're having
breakfast with your parents tomorrow. They'd be happier if you weren't
hungover and after that, you still have a closing shift.''

River thumbed his chin, thinking about it for a second before coming to
a conclusion. ``Eh, Mom and Dad'll be fine. We'll go out somewhere that
has Bloody Marys. If I still feel hungover, I'll call off work. They'll
survive without me for a night.''

``That's not very responsible.'' Before Victor can add anymore, River's
out of his seat, leaning over the table with a dangerous expression on
his muzzle and a finger waving.

``I. Want. A. Tokyo. Iced. Tea,'' the genet demands, elongating the last
word before punctuating with, ``Please.''

Victor knew well enough then to fight him, but only his tail
acknowledged him as he spun around so fast that the chair got knocked
back, almost tipping it over entirely. A worrying thought of his
boyfriend coming back with two beers came to mind. The skunk was always
doing things that he thought best for him without acknowledging his own
wants. It would be enduring if it wasn't so fucking condesending.

He was supposed to be having fun. Trying to take his mind off of the
argument, he distracted himself with the only thing he loved more than
Tokyo Tea and dancing: boys. Closest to him were two doberman standing
over a table without chairs. River took in the short black and brown
fur, trailing it with his mind as easily as his fingers through their
fishnet shirts and shorts they wore. With only their jockstraps to cover
them, one red and one yellow, he didn't have to fantasize what they'd
look like in bed.

Too late did he realize that he was staring and not before Yellow had
noticed. He slapped Red's arm, pointing at the genet with a wide smile
on his face. River, a little abashed that he'd gotten caught staring,
turned his attention towards the rest of the crowd. A fox wearing almost
the exact same outfit he wore was splitting his attention between the
clydesdale and mustang he walked in with. Two frat boys, a dalmatian and
a husky, on the other hand competed for a lithe wolf, neither interested
in sharing the twink.

Before River could even fully develop jealousy for attention, a paw slid
down the back of his shorts. Naturally, he lifted himself off the seat
so he could be cupped easier. When he turned his head though, instead of
an unusually spontaneous skunk, it was Red licking over his cocky grin.
The canine locked his stare, an eyebrow arched daring him to tell him to
stop. A pinch forced a squeak from River and all he could do was mumble
while pressing into the grope.

Leaning over, Red let out a low growl, bristling River's fur in shivers
before the dog whispered, ``I like my kitties with some meat to sink
into.''

\emph{Okay, first, not a feline and kind of annoying to hear it all the
time. Second, what meat are you talking about?} Those were things River
wished he could say, but it'd been so long since he'd had the sensation
of a stranger's unsolicited touch that all he could do was whimper. His
long tail wrapped around the doberman's wrist and he pushed back against
his claws. It hurt a little bit that the dog was pinching him so
roughly, but also excited him far beyond the dull monotony of what he
was used to.

``Can you believe it? Twenty fucking dollars for your Tokyo Iced Tea!''
Victor complained as he settled into his seat, oblivious to the panicked
genet. In one paw was the Tea he promised to bring and in the other, to
River's surprise, was what he assumed was a screwdriver. That, or it
could have just been a glass of orange juice. ``What's the point of even
paying the entrance fee if they're going to gouge us for the drinks
anyways?''

Some tea slushed over the brim of the glass as the skunk practically
slammed it down in front of him. River picked up the glass, giving it a
stir before wrapping his lips around the straw and sipping it while he
continued to be fondled right in front of his boyfriend. In fact,
clueless Victor just continued along with his rant. ``And of course, I'm
the tallest guy standing around and the bartender serves just about
everyone else before even taking my order. Still tipped him a five.''

Knowing that Victor was not going to realize what was up without his
help, River cleared his throat and glanced towards the doberman. All the
while Red seemed to know something was up and was just getting excited
about it. At no point did he stop but he refrained from any quick
movements to conceal what he was doing right in front of the skunk.
River couldn't help but enjoy it to some extent, but also was starting
to feel guilty for liking it this much, so he coughed for Victor's
attention again.

Almost getting the clue, he reached across the table, extending a paw
and introducing himself, ``Hi. Victor. Nice shirt.'' He waited for a paw
and the doberman was caught thinking what to do. Wanting to continue
kneading the genet's ass, he reached up with his left paw and awkwardly
tried to shake upside down. The skunk took it with a confused glance,
holding onto it while he checked to see why he didn't just shake him
with his dominant arm. ``Oh...Oh! Um, that's my boyfriend you're groping
right now.''

Seeming not to care, he left his paw exactly where it had been. Infact,
he even pressed his pointer finger through River's crack, tickling him
enough to get a squirm. ``Well, it appears he likes it,'' Red said
slyly, his grin facing Victor to challenge him.

``Did he say he liked it?'' he asked, though his words lacked any bite.

Keeping himself cool, Victor brought his drink to his lips and took a
quick sip before setting it down and waiting for the doberman to make a
move. There was some tension, even if the skunk didn't seem like he
wanted a fight. The doberman stopped rubbing into his fur and when River
looked to him, he could see that Red was waiting for him to give him
agreed approval. When it was clear he wasn't, the dog got the full
picture and slid his paw out of River's shorts. ``Tch, fuckin' tease,''
he said soured, already walking back to his friend.

``Ugh, that was rude,'' Victor chimed, rolling his eyes and grabbing his
drink for another sip.

Absent a paw, his rear felt unnaturally cold and so did his mood.
``That's it? That's all you're gonna say?''

``What?'' Victor pulled back in his seat confused. ``It looked like you
liked it, to be frank.''

Taking a long sip of his drink, River tried to cool himself down but he
was still frazzled from the groping. ``It doesn't matter if I enjoyed it
or not. You're the one that's supposed to be mad.''

``Mad? Like, at him?'' Victor asked, pointing a finger to the doberman,
already completely over them. ``He's just some horny asshole. You're the
one playing mind games.''

With that, he pulled out his phone again and switched it on, scrolling
where he'd left off in the line. Pursing his lips together so tightly
that they began to turn white, River glared at his boyfriend in
frustration. Claws dug into his own palms as he balled his fists
tightly. Victor was too invested into the phone to even notice the quiet
rage across the table. Trying not to ruin his own night, he took a slow
long sip of his straw until he felt steadied.

``Forget it, babe. Can we just dance already?'' River tried to be as
disarming as he could, and even worked a smile up for him.

Still too invested in his phone, Victor missed the smile and flipped
through tabs instead. Without looking, he dismissed him with a raised
paw. ``Start without me. Today's been a day and I'm not sure if I'm up
for dancing,'' he said, grabbing his glass and taking the tiniest sip.

Astonished, River let his maw gape a second before asking, ``We are out
and you don't want to dance?''

Victor's eyes flicked up over his screen a second to make eye contact as
he spoke, ``You know I don't really like to dance. You can do it without
me. I'm still here.''

Eyes back to the phone.

``Can you at least watch me dance?'' River's lips quivered, a sob choked
back in his throat.

``When I finish up, I'll look for you.''

River waited patiently for him to sit his glass down before slamming
both fists hard enough against the table to rattle the drinks. Neither
tipped, but they bounced about dangerously and Victor was forced to put
down his phone just to save the drinks. Victor, furious, looked about
ready to give his own mind about the genet's outburst, but River didn't
even let him get a word in before he had a finger right up to his nose.

``You can either watch me dance,'' River barked, his finger shifting to
the dance floor. ``Or you can watch me leave,'' he finished, pointing to
the exit.

\emph{What the fuck? What the flying fuck was that about?}

Victor's mind raced as fast as the genet raced over to stage, tail
whipping anyone unfortunate enough to be standing near his path.
Admittingly, part of him wanted to just pull his phone again and make
sure he could see him using it instead of watching him flounder like a
fish. All night, River had been acting like a bitch while he was
purchasing a surprise flight for him and both their parents to vacation
overseas. Ticket prices fluctuate day to day, and though he'd seen them
lower, they were pretty low right now and no guarantee they'd ever get
cheaper.

He could pick up the phone sitting in front of him, but he couldn't
figure out what River meant. Leave? Like, he was going to leave the club
and he'd see him back home? No, that would be nice, and tonight has been
anything but. What was he so pissed off about? Did River really think
that he was going to get into a brawl with some himbo wearing fishnets?
Last time he scuffled, it came with detention and video games stripped
for a week.

Victor's paw went underneath the table, dragging fresh new lines through
the wood with his thick claws. Some destruction settled him down enough
not to just walk out of the club on his own. Though his muzzle was
pointed to his boyfriend, the genet was completely out of his focus.
Rather, him dancing was out of focus. Everything else was getting held
to a magnifying glass.

They had bills, their apartment, their friends, their car, and seven
years worth of furniture that weren't easily divisible. River couldn't
even afford to live on his own with his shitty little fast food job. He
wasn't even supposed to be working for Peppered Patty's anymore. The
money had helped the last year of college, but they'd agreed that River
would quit minimum wage and pursue something real when Victor got out.
Four years later and he was still scrubbing dishes, frying fries, and
flipping burgers.

Victor should have known that River was going to ruin the plans he laid
out for him. Tomorrow was supposed to be more than just breakfast with
the genet's parents. After almost a year straight of talking about their
son's potential, he'd managed to break through. Talking with them,
they'd promised to help convince him to go back to school. As a thank
you, Victor would announce to all of them about the travel plans he'd
cover. It should have been perfect.

Now, while he was unsure if he'd have a boyfriend by night's end, he was
a little glad that he was just short of pressing the ``buy now'' button.
Wanting something a little harder than the screwdriver, he grabbed the
Tokyo Tea and finished the portion that was left. It was sweet, sharing
no hints of its dangerous nature. Victor knew better though, having
rescued River enough times when he forgot his limits capped at two
drinks. Ice clicked against his front teeth as he tipped the glass all
the way back until the last drop dribbled down onto his tongue.

It really was good, maybe even worth the twenty dollars he paid for it.
It mellowed him out enough to actually focus on River across the club.
For a second, his heart kept still, unable to find the yellow tank top
that he used to mark him. Only until he saw the opening on the dance
floor did he realize that it was \emph{his} boyfriend with a paw up
swinging the tank top around in circles over his head.

Embarrassing and childish as it was, Victor couldn't keep back a small
smile creeping up the side of his muzzle. It took a bit of effort to
squash it down and remind himself that he was supposed to be mad at him.
That silliness was the sort of thing that he brought into D\&D and
completely took over the game. Sometimes it was annoying enough that he
would lie about certain rolls to prevent River from causing anymore
damage to the carefully crafted story.

Thinking about it though, before his boyfriend curiously participated
time from time, Victor was about to hang it all up himself. Everything
had become number crunching, designed fun, min/max decision making, and
boring ass characters. When River's curiosity transformed to mocking
half-presence, and eventually full on mountain dew drinking member of
the crew, it reignited his love for the game. Heck, some of the best
nights with his friend group was when River was right there by his side
making everything fun.

Covering his spots again, he must have gotten self-conscious of what he
was doing and put his tank top back on. Arms flying left and right
though, he looked to be really going at it. Leaning in, Victor searched
the genet for something familiar about the way he moved. His dance was
more frantic than feverish. Instead of the music flowing through him
like water, it jerked his body around like he was over hot coals.

Victor remembered this, letting himself get taken back to that first
night he caught his eye. A \emph{little} skinnier, and little less grey
specks hidden in his tan, Victor watch the genet swinging around on a
near empty dance floor an hour before last call. Eyes closed and just
vibing with the music, he thrashed about while everyone else was taking
their time with their partners. Couples took heed to step away from him
if he'd gotten too close.

Something about the way he moved lied so well. All of the energy erupted
from River like a plasma ball sending currents to the glass. While his
moves might have seemed intentional to those who were more focused on
someone tangible, nothing slipped past Victor. Alone at the club
himself, he thought he understood that the genet's dance was only for
himself. It was his way of shaking off everything he was feeling when he
didn't have an outlet to express it.

Though he never met him or even said a word to him, he could see all the
warning signs: ears flattened, tail lashing, fist balled, bit lip, and
eyes squeezed so tight to hold inside everything that threatened to pour
out. Standing from his chair, Victor walked over and grabbed the other
boy by his wrists without even thinking about it. The genet allowed
himself to be led, fighting the tears more than the stranger. Sparing
him embarrassment of becoming a mess right there in front of everyone,
he took him to the side to calm him down while the genet introduced
himself as River though sobs.

Again, without thinking or even realizing he was doing it until they
were safely towards a secluded corner of the room, Victor had led
\emph{his} genet, seven years older and still overflowing with raw
emotions, off of the dance floor. Just like he did the first time, River
stayed as strong as he could, holding back long enough until he was
safely out of sight to start a quiet sob.

``I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean that. I'm so stupid,'' he let
out between bawling.

``Shhh, there's no need for that. You're fine. You're not stupid. Not
the slightest bit,'' Victor reassured him. Every sentence was followed
with strokes running down his nape and spine. They kept tight, close
enough to look like they were in the middle of a slow dance. Cradling
him back and forth, he kept their movements in relative time to the
music to avoid a scene.

A billion apologies came pouring into Victor's chest, soaking buttons
and fabric in tears and snot. Apologies for shoving him in the line,
allowing the doberman to grope him, slamming his fists on the table,
forgetting to grab the mail, and getting mad when Victor brought home
the wrong pudding cups almost two weeks earlier. Though he didn't feel
like he was the one that needed apologies, they felt nice that he was
getting them anyways. Victor just moved to pecks between the ears,
listening while River worked everything out of his system.

Through his dance, his lonesome wild fit, Victor knew the true things
that he hadn't said. It'd been months, \emph{months}, since anyone had
taken River out. All of his old friends, now saddled with
responsibilities, didn't have time or energy to keep up with the wired
genet. The only people that he had left were Victor's nerdy D\&D
friends, their parents, and the skunk himself.

As much as Victor fantasized about nothing more than curling on the
couch with his boyfriend and a streaming service, it all became just as
monotonous as D\&D felt before River showed up. It all felt as tedious
as work, bills, chores, and visits to parents. River wasn't any of those
things and now the skunk felt like a wet blanket over everything fun.
All the while, his boyfriend, the one who's night was being ruined, was
apologizing to \emph{him}.

``Shoosh, shoosh, shoosh,'' Victor whispered, caressing him as best he
could. A few more kisses were enough to get him to calm down so he could
pull him away from his stomach. Despite being through the worst of the
tears, River didn't lift his head to look into his eyes. He just kept
his head down like a scolded cub, but Victor just lifted his muzzle with
his paw until they could see each other.

``I'm sorry I ruined tonight,'' River said, the waterworks starting up
again. ``We can just go home and do something else.''

``Babe, babe, hun. The night's just started. Nothing's ruined,'' Victor
said planting another kiss right on the bridge of his muzzle. He knew he
had a million apologies of his own he owed for making this night so
difficult, but for now, he wanted to focus on turning the night around.
``Like, right off the top of my head, there's two things I can think of
already. You can either watch me dance, or,'' trailing for a second, the
skunk pointed back towards the table area and followed with a shrug,
``Or, you can watch me kick the shit out of that doberman asshole.''

That earned him a snort, and a shove, and a hug, before River shoved him
playfully once more and sniffled up anything left in his snout. Wiping
against his own arm for good measure, he cleaned himself up before
leading Victor back into the center of the dance floor. ``How `bout both
of us just dance right now, and if we have any energy left, we'll jump
him in the bathroom?''

Sliding his paw where the doberman's had been, Victor intimidated him
before leaning in to murmur, ``Maybe, but for now, I'd really love that
dance.''

%\includegraphics[width=4.79423in,height=7.18554in]{media/image1.png}

\chapter*{Last Day}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Last Day}
\markboth{Last Day}{Dirt Coyote}

Bradley opened his eyes, gasping before pulling himself upright on his
bed. Another nightmare, the same one he had last night still on his
mind. He turned left and right, looking around himself as he took in the
environment. It wasn't his room.

For a second, he began to panic more, but the pieces of the puzzle
gradually fell into place as he settled his thoughts. No, it wasn't his
room. He hadn't seen that in almost three weeks. The little wolf cub was
at summer camp and this was the last day.

He wiped at his muzzle and forehead, and then with some dread, lifted
the covers up underneath him. Thank God! The sticky wetness he was
feeling all over his body was just the sweat on his fur. His sheets were
still mostly dry.

Bradley was not a bed wetter, but the fear of having an accident stuck
with him every morning that he was away from home. Doubly so when the
nightmares started coming. Remembering them brought him completely out
of his sleep and got him out of bed.

The sun had yet to rise, and all of the cubs around him were still fast
asleep. Carefully, he got out of his pajamas and put on the khaki shorts
and the branded t-shirt that all the campers wore. Silver Creek Camping
Grounds dawned the front and back of his shirt with a logo of a stream
running through hills into a lake. Also, there was a cartoonishly happy
sun overhead.

It looked kinda lame, but he and everyone else was forced to wear it.
Today he didn't mind it so much, because it made it easier to blend in.
Yesterday, he had made his mind up that he didn't want to be found. He
didn't want his best friend, Pat, to find him at all.

Quietly, the young wolf slipped out of the cabin, dawn's crisp air
bristling his fur. No one was out yet. His stomach gurgled, and he knew
he wanted food first. He walked out to the cafeteria, grabbing hold of
the handle and pulling. It didn't budge.

``Bradley?''

The wolf jumped up, spinning around quickly to see a portly cheetah in
front of him. She had an apron on and a furnet over her head. Her brow
was raised, but she didn't look upset. With a paw scratching the back of
her ear, she asked, ``What're you doing up? You should be sleeping.''

His ears folded back and he dipped his muzzle sheepishly. "Sorry Miss
Carter. I woke up from a nightmare and didn't want to go back to bed,"
he said pitifully. Before he finished, he lifted his head up and asked,
``Is food gonna be ready soon?''

Miss Carter chuckled at that, shaking her head. "I just got up myself.
Food won't be ready for another hour," she said. Crumbling to the
Bradley's puppy eyes, the cheetah let out a sigh and rolled her eyes.
``Out of the way. I'll fix you something since you're up anyways.''

Bradley took a step to the side, smiling as best he could. Miss Carter
unlocked the door, and both made their way inside. It felt weird to see
the cafeteria so empty. Usually it would be loud, very loud, with a
hundred noisy cubs all talking at once while the camp leaders tried to
settle them down fruitlessly.

He stepped inside, walking towards his usual spot in the back. Miss
Carter went straight towards the kitchen, fast as any cheetah he'd ever
seen, despite her size. As he took his seat, he couldn't help but think
about Pat. After all, it was the spot where they had first met.

Bradley looked up, picturing that first day so clearly. He saw the
scrawny glasses wearing coyote a couple tables ahead of him placing his
tray down. His uniform was a size too big on him and he had to tuck in
his shirt just to keep his shorts up. ``Seat's taken,'' a fox said,
scooching over to fill the bench.

``I--- I'm sorry,'' the coyote stuttered, pulling his tray back to a spot
further down the table.

The fox's fur ruffled and he moved a bit more down the bench. "That
one's taken too," he said, looking to rise from his seat.

The boys and girls around the fox laughed, and the coyote took the hint.
He picked up his tray and looked around in a circle. Before he could
stand around too long, the fox barked out, "Go sit in the back with the
other losers. If you stand around here any longer, I swear---"

The coyote jumped out of his spot, walking quickly towards where the fox
told him to go. Even when he got to the back, he wasn't able to take a
seat. He just stood around bashfully, looking at the full table. No one
seemed like they were ready to make room for him.

Bradley folded his ears, not wanting to give up his spot, but he
couldn't just watch this cub stand around stupid anymore. "You can sit
here," the wolf muttered, pulling himself to the side so only half his
rump was still on the bench.

The coyote moved quickly between Bradley and a horse, who reluctantly
made space as well. He sat his tray down and mumbled a quiet thanks.
They sat in silence, and only about halfway through their meals did the
other boy speak. ``I like your watch,'' the coyote said just above a
whisper.

Bradley looked confused for a second, then he looked down at his wrist
and it clicked. "Oh! Right! It's from MechaSuit Fighter X. That's my
favorite one of the five, Savior Suit," he said, holding out his arm so
that the coyote could see it better.

The coyote nodded his head up and down quickly, glasses bouncing on his
muzzle. ``Uh huh! Cunning Suit is my favorite. My name's Pat,'' he said,
holding out a paw for him. And that's all it took. From that point on,
they were inseparable chatterboxes.

At least, they were.

``Bradley?" Miss Carter called from the other side of the cafeteria.
``Foods ready.''

The wolf trotted quickly, walking up to the sneeze guard. A breakfast
burrito sat on a plate, still steaming hot. ``Can I eat outside today?''
he asked, looking towards the window. The sun was just rising.

The cheetah was busy preparing food for the rest of the campers. "You're
not supposed to, but if you promise you won't feed the wildlife, and
throw away any trash, I'll allow it," she said, not turning as she
poured liquid egg out onto a searing flattop.

Bradley grabbed the burrito, tossing it back and forth between paws
until it was cool enough to hold. Right then, other cubs started to walk
in, and he knew he needed to leave now. ``Thanks Miss Carter!'' he called
as he ducked out the back entrance.

Bradley raced towards the lake, keeping behind the trees to avoid being
spotted. Cautiously behind cover, he peeked towards the other campers
getting out of their cabins, trying to see if the coyote was up yet. He
didn't see him, but in his heart, he knew that Pat was up and probably
already starting to worry.

Regardless, he didn't allow himself to be seen as he got to the side of
the lake. With a thump, he plopped himself on the unearthed roots of a
tree and crossed his legs. From his spot, he could see the shore where
he and Pat had spent a lot of time together, especially after the race.
Again, he was taken back to his memories.

Pat fiddled with a buckle on the lifejacket as he whimpered, "I don't
know how to swim."

Bradley gave Pat a reassuring rub on his shoulder, leading him towards
the line for the race. "We're not swimming. We're gonna be in a canoe.
You won't even have to touch the water," he explained to him for the
hundredth time.

Pat nodded, but he looked out past the shore as if he wasn't sure.
Getting close, Bradley grabbed hold of one of the straps on the coyote's
lifejacket and tightened it for him before saying, "I promise, I won't
let you fall into the lake."

That seemed to do the trick, Pat's muzzle softening for a second. Just
then though, the fox came up next to them with his chest puffed out.
``They paired us with you losers? I thought we'd have a real challenge,''
he sneered.

Bradley glared at the fox, but the bigger boy's size kept any words
stuck in his throat. Instead, he just pulled Pat away towards the shored
canoes. ``Don't listen to him. C'mon, let's get ready,'' Bradley said,
only getting a small nod in response.

A big moose stood between the two canoes. His shorts rode up way past
his knees, much further than anyone wanted to see. That seemed to be the
standard for all the camp leaders. Both sets of teams put on their
helmets as he spoke, "Alright campers. Rules are simple. You're going to
take the canoes out past the buoy and then come back to the shore. First
team out of their canoes wins."

Bradley put himself at the front of the canoe so the coyote wouldn't
have to get too deep in the water. Pat got on the opposite side, taking
a gulp as he looked at the small waves crawling up to the shore. Both
boys looked over to the fox, who had grabbed a large bear to be on his
team. They had no hope of winning.

The moose did one last check over all of them, adjusting the fox's
helmet so it was on properly, and then took a step away. "At the
whistle, you'll get your canoes into the water, jump inside, and paddle.
Ready?"

He asked, but immediately blew the whistle after. Bradley grabbed hold
of the handle on the side. They hoisted it together and the wolf ran
towards the water. Pat, however, stuttered his steps as soon as the
water touched his paws. The other boys were already getting inside their
boat.

Bradley turned back to the coyote, noticing him frozen in fear. "C'mon!
We can do this,'' he encouraged him, grabbing his attention. The coyote
turned his head up, nervously chewing on his lip. ``I believe in you,"
Bradley said, flicking his ears towards the lake.

Pat looked down to the water crawling up his ankles, turned his head
towards the other boys, seeing their lead over them, and then back to
Bradley to give a stern nod. Together, they marched into the waves until
it was almost up to the wolf's waist. Then they pulled themselves into
the canoe, Pat kicking up water everywhere as he scrambled to get
inside.

When they were situated, each boy took their paddles and began to row.
The canoe went sailing, way faster than Bradley could have imagined.
Wind gusted through his fur on his face, sending his whiskers into a
gentle flicker. Turning his body to face Pat, he smiled wide at his
friend behind him. He couldn't imagine a better feeling than this.

The fox and bear were bigger, but their weight wasn't doing them favors
nor their coordination. Bradley just felt this connection to Pat, and
their paddling was perfectly synchronized. When one paddle went up, the
other scooped down and pushed them forward. Despite the hiccup, they
were side-by-side with the other canoe within a minute.

``You're cheating!'' the fox shouted, but the waves and the kick of the
paddles drowned him out. Mostly. Bradley could still hear the other boy
cursing up a storm, words his parents would've twisted his ear off if
they ever caught him uttering.

Bradley could see the buoy bobbing up and down right ahead of them. They
were neck and neck with the other canoe right up until the point where
they passed the threshold. Then, they were suddenly ahead. Both boys
lurched right, taking a tight smooth circle around the buoy, while the
fox and bear made an awkward turn, unable to catch up. As they rounded
back towards the shore, Bradley and Pat were now firmly ahead of the
other team.

THWACK!

Pat cried out and the canoe shook. Bradley turned back to see the fox
was trying to swing at them with his paddle. They were too far ahead for
him to reach, but the thought of the canoe capsizing with Pat in it gave
him a flurry of strength. The wolf put all of his might into his
paddling, and there was no doubt that the coyote was doing the same.

In a desperate attempt, the fox lunged his paddle out to hit Pat.
Thankfully, it fell short and now the other team was shy one paddle.
Getting back to the shore was quick, and both boys jumped out of their
seats into the water. They pulled their canoe into the sand and then
immediately embraced one another.

``We did it! I have no clue how it happened, but we did it!'' Bradley
shouted, bouncing up and down on his heels.

Pat was equally ecstatic, though he was also trembling like mad. "I was
so scared but that was so fun. I can't get my paws to stop shaking."

``You two must've cheated!'' the fox said, coming out of the water with a
finger waving at them.

Before either boy could respond, the moose grabbed the fox by the scruff
and pulled him back. ``I saw what you did out there,'' he snorted, hot
breath being felt by everyone.

``It just came out my paw, I swear. They were the ones that cheated,'' he
cried out, but was yanked away quickly and they watched as he was
trotted towards the guidance office. Bradley remembered turning back
towards Pat, unable to wipe the smile from his muzzle.

He was almost too distracted in his memories that he almost didn't see
the coyote in the same spot they were when they won the race. He was
standing at the shore, looking around with his tail between his paws.
The wolf was frozen, heart still in his chest. To Pat's misfortune
though, he turned the wrong direction and by the time he did look to
where Bradley had been sitting, he was already behind a tree. A second
later, he darted off, shielded by the woods.

He sprinted as fast as he could while not making too much noise. The
coyote wasn't following behind him, but he ran anyways. It hurt too much
to stick around and see his distraught friend. Not until he met a
clearing did he slow down.

Though he could hear the sounds of campers in the distance, he was
completely alone. He wandered to where the fire pits were situated.
Tired from running, Bradley found a seat on top of a log to catch his
breath. It was only then that he recognized this was the spot where they
admitted their feelings to each other.

``You think Ashley likes you?'' Pat asked in a hushed tone.

The fire crackled in its dying light. All the other campers had gone to
bed, though Bradley imagined most were all still awake huddled under
their sheets. The stories the camp leaders shared were pretty spooky,
though, so-so to the wolf. He wanted to hear something really terrifying
and so his camp leader, a husky with a ball cap, stayed up with them to
tell one last story.

However, he never actually finished his story. No, the dog got about
halfway through before he said he was gonna shut his eyes for a second.
That'd been thirty minutes prior and he was now slumped to the side
snoring gently. Bradley didn't mind cause he'd rather stay up and chat
with Pat anyways.

The wolf put a paw to the back of his head, slightly abashed. ``Maybe,''
he said, trying to hold back his smile and failing miserably. "She's
always trying to get me alone."

Pat's eyes were wide behind his glasses, fascinated about the prospect.
``Wow. Ashley's really cool. I saw her do archery and it was insane,'' he
said, twisting his tail in his paws.

Bradley shrugged. She was cool, that's for sure, but he didn't feel that
way for her. ``How about you?'' he asked, though, he figured he knew the
answer.

Pat chuckled nervously and ducked his head. "I don't think any girls
like me."

The coyote bit his lip nervously, but Bradley just gave him a nudge on
the shoulder. ``Someone's gotta like you. Don't you like anyone?''

Pat flinched slightly at the touch, and Bradley raised an eyebrow as he
watched him scooch an inch away. He knew the other boy was shy, but he
hadn't suspected him to get this tense over a silly conversation. The
coyote didn't say anything, still keeping his head down.

``Well?'' Bradley pressed him for an answer.

Pat let go of his tail, wrapping both paws around his face as he
muttered out, ``I don't know if I can tell you.''

Bradley's muzzle twisted and he let out a little bratty huff. He crossed
his arms and pouted, "Of course you can tell me. We tell each other
everything."

That made the coyote squirm a bit, and Bradley felt a little embarrassed
at the way he was acting. He uncrossed his arms and closed the gap
between them. His arm went over Pat's shoulder and he squeezed him
close. ``I'm sorry. You don't have to say if you don't want to.''

The coyote looked up again, turning his muzzle to face Bradley. "I want
to, it's just dumb," he said, eyes starting to water.

Oof, he really had the coyote messed up. Not wanting his friend to feel
so down, he gave him a light shake and smiled back at him. "Nothing you
do is dumb. You're like, the smartest kid here."

Pat let out a small laugh. "It's a little weird. You promise you won't
get mad at me?" he asked, trying to hold back his tears.

Bradley's muzzle cocked to the side. "Why would I be mad? It's not Miss
Carter is it? Cause I heard some of the boys like---"

``---It's you.''

Bradley's muzzle cracked in a smile, his head tilting to the side.
``What? Me? What about me?''

Pat didn't say anything, just turning his head downward. The wolf's ears
danced over his head in confusion. Slowly though, they began to settle
as the words began to make sense to him. Bradley quickly let go of the
coyote, getting a couple inches from the other boy.

``Me? You like me?'' he asked, his voice a little louder than he meant to.

Pat was flustered, his breathing shallow. The coyote got to his feet,
his shoes cracking some leaves underneath. Before he could get a step
away though, Bradley darted an arm out and grabbed hold of Pat's wrist.

\emph{SNORT}

Both boys froze, turning their heads to the camp counselor. The husky
had stirred, eyes fluttering for a second. Bradley didn't move a muscle
and neither did Pat. They just stared wide-eyed at him, before he
slumped back in position and continued snoring. A sigh of relief was
shared between them.

Bradley was the first to speak, just above a whisper. ``Don't go.''

The coyote looked down at the paw holding his, and Bradley let go, a
little afraid of the touch. Pat pulled his paw back shyly, and though he
didn't sit down immediately, he did find a seat. It was a foot from the
wolf.

``I'm sorry,'' Pat said, adjusting his glasses.

Bradley didn't feel like he was owed an apology, especially from his
best friend being honest. He thought of his words carefully before
saying, ``No, I'm sorry. I was just--- I didn't think you could do that.''

He felt dumb saying it, but it was the truth. He'd never heard of a boy
liking another boy before. The rules were boys liked girls and girls
liked boys, and it never occurred to him that they could like each
other. And truthfully, now that he was thinking about it, there was no
one else that he wanted to spend time with like he did with Pat.

Bradley scooched a little closer to the coyote. "What do you like about
me?"

Pat's ears and brow went up, and even though he tried to suppress it,
his tail started a small wag. "I think it's cool you like MechaSuit
Fighter X," he said bashfully, and that made the wolf's muzzle hot.

Bradley inched a bit more towards him. ``Is that all?''

Now the coyote's tail was wagging quick, a soft beat as it thumped
against the log. ``No?'' Pat said, unsure of himself. His smile was so
large that his glasses went crooked on his snout and he had to readjust
them. ``I think you're nice and you're fun.''

Bradley gulped, and rested his paw next to Pat. "I think you're nice and
fun too."

Pat looked down at the paw, back up at the wolf, and ever so slowly
brought his own down to rest on top. The butterflies swirled like a
storm inside Bradley's stomach. His fur stood on every inch of his body,
and even the amazing feelings of the canoe race paled in comparison.
Just before he could do anything more though, the camp counselor shifted
suddenly.

\emph{THUMP}

Both boys were on opposite sides of the log in a second, staring across
the pit to the absent husky. Neither realized what had fully happened
until the man came up withleaves and dirt all over his fur and clothes.
He scrambled for a second to get to his feet before slowly turning to
the two campers.

``Did I fall asleep?'' he asked, flipping his head left and right.

Bradley and Pat kept their maw's closed, though both fought hard to keep
their coy smiles to themselves. They giggled silently, still riding the
high of the touch. The husky put a paw to the back of his head, and a
finger to his muzzle. "Why don't we just keep this to ourselves and I'll
get you two ice cream tomorrow."

The ice cream was delicious, especially when Bradley shared it holding
hands with his first boyfriend.

``Are you here? Bradley?'' Pat called as he walked into the campsite.

The wolf heart raced as he crouched behind a trash bin, keeping his tail
wrapped to his body. He didn't dare make a move, knowing leaves were
underneath his feet. Just listened and waited until he heard Pat kick up
a flurry of leaves and storm off.

Why couldn't the coyote just play soccer with the other cubs? Why
couldn't Pat just spend time with a camp counselor to learn to swim?
There were a million things that he could be doing right now instead of
looking for him With tears in his eyes, Bradley got out of hiding and
started a jog.

There were a few places that he thought of to go: the archery range, the
crafting rooms, the waterslide by the lake, the soccer field, the
foosball tables, or even the cabins themselves, but all of them were
riddled with memories of Pat. Even if he could avoid the coyote all day,
he couldn't keep him out of his mind.

Bradley went to the only place he knew he could get some privacy to
think. Just behind the showers was a small patch of trees. The chemicals
wafting from stalls were enough to hide his scent, but he knew it would
be pointless. This was the spot they shared their first kiss, and Pat
would think to look for him there as well.

And sure enough, even when he hid behind a bush, the coyote was stomping
his way over. ``Bradley, please!'' Pat cried out, like he knew he was
hiding just behind the leaves. His legs wouldn't move, even as he heard
the other boy fall to his knees.

He could hear the coyote's sniffling, and he had never felt more ashamed
at himself. Why was he doing this to him? After weeks of never leaving
Pat's side, he chose the last day to act like such a coward. Bradley was
about ready to crawl out of the bushes until he heard more footsteps
approaching.

``Wow, look at the loser crying!'' he heard the fox say in his signature
sneer. ``Why you crying? Can't find your \emph{boyfriend}?''

There was a shuffling, the coyote trying to get up off the ground,
immediately followed by the sound of someone falling down. Bradley poked
his head around the bush to see the fox standing over Pat on his back.
The other boy was so much bigger than the coyote, standing over him
while his friends watched.

"I heard he left early cause he couldn't stand to be around you
anymore," the fox said, looking ready to push him back down if he tried
to get up.

For a split second, Bradley could make out the look of complete betrayal
on Pat's muzzle. Something snapped inside the wolf, and he went wild out
of the bushes. He ran straight past the coyote, and when one fist went
up, one fox came down.

``OOF!'' The fox wrapped a paw around his stomach, falling onto one knee.
He stayed there a second, wobbling back and forth, before ultimately
ending on his side in the dirt.

Riding the energy, the wolf stepped over the fox, glaring down at him.
"I want you to leave us alone. You've been nothing but a total jerk to
me and Pat." To emphasize his point, he waved a paw behind himself to
the other boy.

Except, there was no coyote behind him. Bradley did a double-take, the
empty spot jarring to see. At first he worried his guilt ridden mind
imagined it all. Looking up though, he caught the white tip of Pat's
tail disappearing around the corner of the showers.

He spun back around at the fox underneath him and shouted, voice
cracking, ``Just leave us alone!'' Even though it didn't feel very
intimidating, the fox nodded his head up and down, teeth still grit.
Bradley couldn't help but feel a little pity for him. None of his
friends had moved to his side. They just stepped away, not willing to
put themselves in danger for him. That was what he had with Pat.

And he had spent the whole day ruining it.

In a dash, he booked it in the coyote's direction. ``Pat! Wait!'' he
called out, unable to find him. Well, wasn't that some shi---stuff?
Bradley had been avoiding him all day and now their roles were reversed.
He hopped on his heels, spinning around in a circle. There was no sight
of him.

Bradley calmed down and breathed in. Pat had been able to trace him all
day, and he knew it was because he was following his heart. He looked
into himself, thought about what he was doing all day, and walked
towards his cabin.

And like he expected, the coyote was there, alone, underneath the covers
of his bed quietly crying to himself. He was trying to keep it down, but
Bradley could see the covers going up and down in his sobs. The wolf's
lips were pursed together tightly as he walked across the room and
seated himself on top of his bed. Pat knew who it was.

``Why were you hiding from me?'' he asked underneath the sheets.

Bradley knew why, but he didn't want to say it. Only stroked a paw over
Pat's shoulder underneath the blanket. The coyote recoiled, not wanting
the attention. ``I'm sorry,'' Bradley said, even when he knew it wasn't
enough.

Pat didn't respond other than to inch away. It wasn't really far, but it
was enough for Bradley to know he messed up big time. The wolf sighed,
not wanting to admit it, but knowing he had to be brave and say what he
needed to say.

``I'm really sorry I ruined our last day together,'' Bradley started,
beginning to choke up. "These past weeks have been the best, and I got
scared. I kept having nightmares that we had to say goodbye. I just
thought if I didn't see you, it would've been easier."

Pat came out of cover, only to look at Bradley with a bewildered look.
His eyes were red, and his glasses were all over the place. Bradley
wanted to fix them, but he didn't want to touch the coyote. It didn't
help when he said, ``That's dumb.''

Bradley's ears folded back, but he figured he earned that. "Yeah, it's
kinda dumb," he agreed.

There was an awkward pause, Bradley not sure what to do at this point.
The sun was still up and other campers were outside, laughing and having
fun. He gnawed his lip for a second, then said, ``I'm sorry for being a
jerk. We still have the rest of the day together though. Can't we just
get out of bed and we'll do whatever you want?''

Pat nodded his head up and down at first, but before Bradley could even
get up, he shook his head. ``Wait,'' he whispered, muzzle ducked in
embarrassment. "I guess, I wanted to spend all day with you because I'm
scared to say goodbye too,`` Pat said, before looking up at the wolf. ''I
don't want to be scared anymore either."

Bradley, eyes watery and ears folded back, reluctantly nodded his head.
It was the dread of the needle's prick before a shot, the nautious turn
of the guts when jumping from somewhere high, and the brace of impact
just before a car crash rolled all into one feeling. After the day that
he had given the coyote, it was the least he owed him.

He reached out, grabbing Pat's paws and pulled him out from under the
sheets. Licking his lips, he thought over his words carefully before
saying, ``You're the smartest boy I know. You're braver than you think.
You mean everything to me.'' A tear shed over his cheek, dangling at the
end of his fur.

Pat nodded, but looked down foolishly. His thumbs twiddled inside of
Bradley's palms, claws tracing little circles into his pads. Bradley
made no move to rush him. Just enjoyed the soothing touch as the coyote
collected himself. Being honest, if Pat asked him to just sit in his bed
with him like this until their parents arrived, that would be fine too.

``Ever since the first day we met, I knew I liked you,'' Pat started,
finally finding the courage to follow through. ``You talked to me, and
you made me feel welcome. When I said I liked you, I was so scared you'd
be mad. I feel lucky that you liked me back, and I don't think I'll like
anyone else like I do you.'' Clasping onto Bradley's paws tight, he got
a little closer to the wolf before saying, ``I'm going to miss you.''

Bradley nodded, a couple tear beads flicking off his whiskers. ``I'm
going to miss you too,'' he said, and they embraced each other tight.
They stayed that way, comforting one another. When there was nothing
left to give, they managed to pull themselves apart. Pat gave a small
laugh, seeing some of their fur had stuck together.

Bradley nodded his head up and down, confirming, ``No more goodbyes?''

Pat, wiping away the last of his tears, agreed, ``No more goodbyes.''

Though there wasn't a lot of time left, both boys made the most out of
it. They hung out by the lake, played a little soccer with the other
campers, and Pat got a bullseye at the archery range. They even got to
listen to one more scary story, and they never forgot their last day
together.
