---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/23/character-versus-self/
title: Character Versus Self
slug: character-vs-self
date: 2011-11-23
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
---

When I first got into furry, I was probably fourteen or fifteen.  I know that it
was the fall semester of my freshman year of high school, and that I started
getting into it in my downtime in my first computer class at school (well,
during class, too), as well as at home.  I wound up finding Yerf and FluffMUCK
back in their prime, and played around with IRC on YiffNet, as well.  I found
the whole thing from a website I was on called Puberty101 - which now sounds
like a pedophile's paradise; the name was later changed to GovTeen - a forum
site for (supposed) kids to ask questions of other (supposed) kids about things
like sex and sexuality, emotions, and all that jazz.  Just so happened that I
stumbled over a few posts regarding this thing called furry, one of which had
this abstruse collection of letters, numbers and punctuation at the end, which
was described as a 'fur code'.<!--more-->

I had already been all about the good old furry favorites like Disney's Robin
Hood, The Rescuers, Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, the Redwall books, and so
on.  Finding the fur code and what it meant at that time in my life led to a
perfect, terrible storm of destruction for any hopes of normalcy I had planned
for my life.  I latched right onto it and, after spending three dumb days as a
dragon, settled on a red fox with two tails as my character and dubbed myself
Ranna.  This was the subtle point that would take me the better part of ten
years to disentangle: character creation.

I sometimes wonder if people involved in LARP communities, those in the SCA, or
even pencil and paper RPG players get quite as involved in their characters as
furries do.  I honestly don't know, as most of my knowledge is gained from an
outside, media-tainted perspective, but I suspect that it might be a little
different for furries for a couple of reasons.  First and foremost is that our
characters are intended to be a representation of ourselves.  The thing that
drew me in about FurCodes was the 'T' segment: If you had the chance, would you
want to become a real furry.  This wasn't just something fun we did or some
historical accuracy we strive for - people actually really, truly desired to
become their characters.  I'm sure there are folk in the SCA or in LARP groups
that really do desire to be in the role they're playing, but that leads us to
the second point.

Furries don't necessarily role play outside themselves.  Someone who gets so
into renaissance festivals that they wind up working there and living the
characters on weekends is casting themselves into a totally different time,
where the modern conveniences of life are gone and everything is fundamentally
different.  Furries - and, though I'm speaking from experience here, I know it
doesn't apply to everyone - are perfectly content to act out their day to day,
mundane, boring-ass lives as anthropomorphic canines (statistically speaking).
 As I was growing up through high school, I hung out with a crowd made up of
furry gamers, programmers, and computer nerds; not just the players, but the
characters as well.  As I grew and moved to college, I decamped from FluffMUCK
and moved over to FurryMUCK to spend most of my time in The Purple Nurple, an
online, text only gay bar where predominately gay furry yuppies aired their
college and post-college woes.  We weren't just pretending to be cat- and
dog-people, and we weren't just chatting about work, we were cat- and dog-people
chatting about work.

Of course, I wasn't totally secluded in my world of young professional furry gay
men, I hung out elsewhere online and experienced everything from multi-session,
all-hours of the night role playing (usually dirty) to entire relationships
enacted strictly in-character.  However, while there were always 'OOC', or
out-of-character moments, everyone was joined together in the fact that they
*were* their character.  Even when I was in college, the music
department, a decidedly close-knit group, contained several people who were just
in it because they happened to be good at playing, say, the oboe, and could give
a shit less about music, being an instrumentalist, or even making money off
their skill.  In my experience, people like that in furry are rare: there's the
occasional person who has no real attachment to the fandom other than they
simply happen to be good at some aspect of it, but they seem to be far from the
norm.

All of this adds up to something that I feel is fairly unique to the fandom.  It
is a strange line that divides character from self, in a fur.  The line is
semipermeable as some would gladly view themselves as their character as a sort
of whole-body dysphoria, but there's still the separation between that aspect of
personality and the person as a whole.  Our characters are intangible,
non-spatiotemporal; they aren't something that can be touched or felt, and are
closer to an idea than anything real.  However, they form an integral part of
our concept of self, whether or not we would actually like to be our
anthropomorphic fox character in real life.  They inform our view of the world
around us, as well, and not just in some vaguely foxish or wolfish way.

There is no denying that a good portion of the community revolves around art -
visual and otherwise.  As with any group of people, though, skill in one
particular field is not evenly distributed, and while there are definitely a lot
of amazing artists within the fandom, they are still a minority.  We rely on the
skills of a relatively small sub-set of our community to provide us with the
more tangible representations of our characters, and here is where this blurred
line between character and self can cause issues.  However, the way in which
furries interact with creators in the community differs greatly from the way in
which a professional artist would interact with a client in a few very important
ways.  A client may commission an artist for a piece of artwork to appreciate or
for others to appreciate - that is, something to hang in their house or
something to hang in public.  With  music, you can branch out and say that a
client may commission the artist for a piece of music to perform.  In all of
these cases, though, nothing works quite like it does in the fandom: with furry
commission, you're not simply commissioning a piece of art to hang around the
house and show others, you're commissioning a representation of your
*self*.

Several seemingly unique issues in the way that artists and clients (or
'commissioners', as they're called, leading one artist to create a "feral
Commissioner Gordon") stem from this strange difference.  Some of the onus of
creation is moved from the artist to the client in that much of the picture is
designed by the client instead, because, after all, it is the client's character
and the artist's talent.  This seems to work closer to standard work-for-hire
relationships, except that it has strange inflections on licensing: FA notably
specifies that uploads fall under a policy of 'by you/for you', where a user may
upload a picture that they created or that was created for them.  Rather than
falling under a standard work-for-hire relationship where it is the artist's
talent and the client's art, there exists a continuing tension between the two
parties, the artist maintaining near full rights over their creation while the
client's rights remain in shady limbo - they maintain rights over the
intellectual property of their character, and have some vague sense of ownership
over the picture they've received, with a shadowy idea of where they're allowed
to show it.

As a personal example, I was commissioned for a three-movement work for French
horn and string base to be performed on my senior recital.  As I had been used
to the standard furry way of doing things, I insisted that the instrumentalists
specify rather more than less of the work, a fact that led to much strife and
pain in getting the piece actually performed.  I was unable to live up to their
expectations (they wanted me to write like Hindemith, and I'm not Hindemith),
they were unmotivated to rehearse a piece that they felt they had a hand in
creating, and my composition professor was baffled by the whole scenario.  My
senior recital turned out to be one of the most disappointing experiences in my
life, largely in part due to the fact that I had failed to properly execute the
commission that was expected of me.

From the other side, an [artist](http://www.furaffinity.net/user/pseudomanitou)
on FA recently wrote a journal about possibly offering prints of works that were
commissioned from him, mentioning that since it was work-for-hire, he would
split profit with the client who had commissioned the piece in the first place.
 The [result](http://www.furaffinity.net/journal/2840110/) was rather out of
proportion with the original post and helped to illuminate several of the
differences between the professional art world and the art world contained
within the furry fandom.  "My talent, not my art \[is for sale\]. A commissioner
buys my talent to make their art," the artist writes, leading to a slew of
comments ranging from decently positive to stunned and angry.  This standard
practice is in direct opposition to the way the furry art world works - limited
rights to the artist's art is for sale, rather than simple access to their
talent.

No small amount of drama has originated from this scheme.  While the artist
above relinquishes their rights to the piece they've created to the client as
part of standard business practice, this is not the usual within the fandom, and
a client doing something such as uploading their art to be seen by a wider
audience on other furry art sites such as fchan, e621, or pawsru.org can
certainly lead to plenty of strife.  There is the occasional artist who will
upload their art to these sites on their own, but the fandom has largely set
them up as their villains, several of the sites or members of the sites buying
readily into that label and stirring things up on their own.  This concern over
use of art is doubly strange for a community so focused on appropriating heavily
licensed characters such as those from Sonic the Hedgehog or anything from
Disney for themselves.

The concepts of character and self are rooted deep in the furry community.
 Making a negative comment about someone's fursuit or images of their character
can lead to trouble, as the words can be seen as a slight against that person.
 After all, the fursuit or image is a representation of the character's owner -
even if you agree that a thing is ugly, a careless phrase can cause offense if
that thing is dear to you.  The result is something akin to an offshoot of the
Dunning-Kruger effect - unskilled people holding illusory superiority while
skilled people hold illusory inferiority - in that the one who receives a
representation of their character is likely to hold it to some illusory ideal
higher than just any similar piece.  Meaning in art is a tough subject, and it's
only made more complicated within the fandom when it comes to character art.

The two intertwined entities of character and self comprise a large part of
furry.  The fandom as it is is hard enough to pin down to any one definition,
and I think that's due in large part to the myriad ways in which one interacts
with one's character or characters.  For some, their character is inextricably a
part of themselves, closer to an anima or animus in the Jungian sense.  For
others, myself included, a character may carry smaller aspects of personality,
and not, as a result, be as all-encompassing.  Speaking for myself, I have three
or four of what I would consider characters that I often interact with, and each
acts differently, each more focused on a different aspect of my personality.
 This didn't use to be the case, though, as I previously had a single character
that was more all-encompassing and close to my self.

Along with the shift in character interaction came a shift in friend circles,
and it left me wondering how much this internal interaction define how we build
up and maintain our lives within furry.  I asked around on
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/adjspecies) and got a few answers: the way
in which we relate to our characters does seem to have some relation to the
types of people we find ourselves friends with.  Whether that's cause, effect,
or some sort of subconscious correlation, I can't say.  All of this pondering
around the psychological aspects of pretending to be an animal person with a lot
of other people pretending to be animal people may just be another symptom of
being a firmly-entrenched member of the very same fandom.  A commenter on a
previous entry used the word 'avatar' instead of character, and I feel that this
was an appropriate choice of words, moreso than character.  A character is an
entity not necessarily connected to some person in reality, but an avatar has
connotations of incarnation and appearance of something outside the world in
which it interacts.  *This* is the idea behind our characters: they
aren't just some sort of disjoint idea that relates back to us, even if we
create more than one.  They are aspects of us, and as such, are integral to us.
 No wonder we can get so touchy in regards to our interactions with them.
