---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/16/boys-girls-and-the-in-betweens/
title: Boys, Girls, and the In-Betweens
slug: boys-girls-and-the-in-betweens
date: 2011-11-16
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
- Gender
---

For many, perhaps most, it's easy to envision furry as being made up in large
part of gay males.  Some evidence bears this out, even; results from the Furry
Survey suggests that a majority of furry [is indeed
male](http://vis.adjectivespeces.com/furrysurvey/sexGender.shtml), though the
sexual orientation side of things [suggests a different
story](http://vis.adjectivespeces.com/furrysurvey/orientation.shtml), which is
still, of course, far and above what's considered standard in western society.
 The point of interest comes in the way gender and sexuality are explored
strictly within the context of furry, whether through art or through text,
particularly on the Internet.<!--more-->

I, admittedly, grew into the fandom with a similar mindset, expecting that it
would be a warm and welcoming place for a young gay (as I identified at the
time; things have since shifted) man, and I certainly wasn't disappointed.
 There was a very welcoming, bordering on celebratory, attitude towards
non-heterosexual orientations, and there was certainly no shortage of guys
around to fit into that niche.  I came from a pretty standard family as far as
gay kids from upper-middle class liberal America go, and even I was pleasantly
surprised by the amount of acceptance and testosterone flowing around within the
fandom.  It definitely fit in well with my burgeoning sexuality, in that I had a
lot of supportive people surrounding me and, to put it bluntly, a lot of choices
for the targets of my affection.  Even today, I'm surprised at how large a part
sexual orientation plays in those that I meet, to an embarrassing point, in
some.

More surprising than the gay men, however, was the women I met.  Specifically,
the discrepancies in gender ratios online versus that which I heard about and
encountered at conventions, meets, and in person in general.  This wasn't some
sort of taboo phenomenon, either.  Some openly joked about how males on MUCKs
were males, and females on MUCKs were probably males too.  Others who were a
different gender online from in person treated it as an open secret and joked
about it often.  Even those who didn't joke about it weren't coy about
differentiating between player and character when talking online.

I'm sure that there as many, if not more, reasons for someone to have a
character of a different gender from their player online as their are people who
actually do that.  In fact, there almost certainly are a good deal more reasons
for someone to do that than there are people who do that, just due to the fact
that people change over time.

Here now, I've been playing coy, and that's probably not a good thing for
writers to do.  I know that this is the case because, in eleven years of being
around within the fandom now, I've done my own fair share of playing around with
gender and talking with those who do similar online, and I think I definitively
state that there are several reasons for doing so.  They can be divided into
needs and wants: those things that are biological or psychological imperatives
and those things that are more desires than must haves.

Topping the list of wants is likely the desire for heterosexual interaction -
not necessarily just in the realm of sex, either.  In a predominately male
social group where sexual orientation is divided up fairly evenly, people have
found a way to increase the amount of females available for this interaction
through role play and art.  When it comes to sex on the Internet, it's then
easier for people to find partners even if they're playing the female role in
the act. This has surely led to more than a few instances of relationships that
have started based on this interaction and then failed due to that not actually
being the case in real life.

Along with this is the same concept of exploration that is almost stereotypical
in society at large, where gender and sexual orientation are balanced
differently.  Some players who identify as primarily homosexual may spend
sometime playing with or as female characters as a means of experimenting more
with a new experience.  For some, it's simply testing the waters, for others
more of a kink type thing, something to indulge in that's not quite the norm.
 In line with that, the Internet has certainly engendered increased sexual
liberation, and some may find themselves exploring broader and broader areas of
interest as time goes on, and playing as a female character may just be another
way to branch out and have fun.

This ties a little into the separation between character and self.  In these
instances, the female character's player likely retains a fairly solid sense of
male gender, as opposed to the instance where the difference between player and
character sex is driven more by a need. The net has definitely brought around
several benefits, and the layer of anonymity inherent in interactions provides a
unique outlet for gender dysphoria; that is, some will undoubtedly play
characters of a different gender from themselves because that gender will more
closely match the gender that they feel.

As a bit of an aside, it should be noted that there's a difference between
gender and sex, in this context.  Sex is fairly easily defined as the biological
make-up of the body, whether male, female, or intersex.  Gender is a little
tougher to pin down.  It can be seen as a psychological thing, as in whether or
not one feels comfortable or not (dysphoric) with one's given sex.  It can also
be taken in a sociological context, as several feelings in regard to gender have
to do with how one is perceived by others and what societal roles they fit into.
 While western society is heteronormative, gender can, like sexual orientation,
be interpreted as a continuous scale from one extreme (totally masculine) to the
other (totally feminine), meaning that these perceptions and roles can apply to
portions of a person's life rather than simply the entirety.

Gender identity is always a sticky issue to get around, as it doesn't have quite
the recognition that sexual orientation has, and thus has less support behind
it, both from medicine and psychology, as well as society at large.  Many don't
understand the issues surrounding gender, and it's difficult to comprehend what
exactly is involved when gender and sex don't match up.  Despite my own
experiences with being in a relationship with a transgender person, I didn't
quite understand things until only rather recently.

The reason I'm writing about this at all, and still having a hard time not being
coy or dancing around the issue is that it's difficult for me to speak about
openly.  That I have any problems at all with my own gender identity was very
difficult for me to admit to myself and is harder still to admit to anyone else.
 This is the first time I've mentioned it to anyone besides my partner and one
or two close friends, actually, and it worries me that I'm doing so in so public
a fashion, but it *is* pertinent.  As with sexual orientation and coming out,
it's the type of thing one fears losing friends and family over, and with
myself, it led to a period of depression earlier this year lasting several
weeks.

The reason I even bring it up, though, is simply to make the point even more
clear on the importance of gender within furry, the fandom which is so welcoming
of those within it that the answers pertaining to sexual orientation in the
furry survey suggest a truly equal distribution of the sexual orientation
spectrum (this in comparison to the oft-quoted 10% thrown around in reference to
homosexuality in western civilization at large).  The fact that one can create a
character with which they strongly identify in terms of gender and sex online
can be an important psychological outlet.  I can say first-hand that the
discomfort felt during sex when one's gender and sex don't line up is intense
and, when your sexual partner is your significant other, deeply upsetting.

Interactions online blur the line between the two socially accepted genders even
further, as it introduces the possibility of playing out roles that even more
closely match one's gender than society - or biology, for that matter - will
allow.  To pull some examples from recent art that's been floating around, if
one identifies as mostly masculine with some female attributes, one's character
could be a mostly male hermaphrodite, or, if even less masculinity feels right,
a (and I feel the need to prefix this with my personal dislike of the term)
'cunt-boy'.  The whole spectrum of gender can be expressed in your character
with that layer of anonymity the Internet provides, including even lack of
gender or inherently hermaphroditic species such as chakats.

The whole idea of mixed genders within the fandom wasn't something that I ran
into until I had been exploring furry for a few years.  I didn't really
understand them or people's reaction to them for quite a while.  The whole
concept seems to be fairly divisive, with people taking either a firm stance
against or for the whole concept.  On one hand, I've heard mixed genders of
different sorts described positively as "more fun, since you can stack them so
many ways" and negatively as "guys just wanting to play with boobs and dick at
the same time".  I certainly can't speak for everyone involved and don't care to
try and change anyone's mind, but my own opinion is decidedly positive: if the
character fits the gender, excellent!  If it really is just about sex and
playing Tetris with warm bodies, well, sex is good too.

Furry is very much a sexual subculture, when taken as a whole (though not
perhaps as much as
people [think](http://vis.adjectivespeces.com/furrysurvey/sexImportance.shtml)).
 It's not surprising, then, that gender plays so large a role within the fandom,
both online and off.  It is an integral part of sexuality.  If the fandom is so
sexually liberal as compared to the world it inhabits, yet is a subset of that
world, it really makes me wonder how much of this is going on within humanity as
a whole.  Are we all so evenly distributed in terms of sexual orientation, and
the bipolarity of western society just prevents that from being expressed?  Are
issues of gender versus sex more prevalent than it appears?  And, with a
[few](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-spirited)
[exceptions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_gender), are we really as on our
own as it seems when it comes to mixing biological sex in one body?   Hardly
questions for a dumb blog on furries to answer, but interesting all the same.
