---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/11/the-dramagogues-episode-1-strife/
title: The Dramagogues - Episode 1 - Strife
slug: the-dramagogues-episode-1
date: 2012-01-11
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
---

I've been tiptoeing around this subject for a while now. It's one of those
topics that is both a pretty big deal and should be talked about, as well as
one that is pretty divisive and some people could be tetchy about. My big worry
in bringing it up I not that I'll open a discussion on the topic, because
that's what I want to do. Rather, I worry that any discussion that does happen
would be more inflammatory than anything. It's one of those topics that a lot
of people seem to agree on, but not agree on why, and it's difficult to
describe in words in any event. So I'm going to do the band-aid thing here and
just say it all at once: either furries are more dramatic people than other
groups, or they think they are, and either concept is fraught with implications
and certainly worth exploring, given how much time and energy the fandom seems
to put into its drama.<!--more-->

There is no metric of drama. It's a hard thing to gauge and an even harder
thing to gauge objectively. To say that furry is more dramatic than other
groups, or more dramatic than life in general or simply the non-furry portion
is a hard statement to back up. Is the drama more intense or less? Does it
happen more frequently or less frequently? Is it more or less legitimate? Or
important? Rooted in reality? That there are even so many questions in the
second paragraph of a write-up on the subject bodes ill for saying,
definitively, whether or not furry is more dramatic. Instead of trying to
determine one way or another on the issue, I think it would be best to explore
why this either may be the case or at least why many of us believe it is. I
asked this as a quick poll on twitter a while back, so I'm going to structure
the first two parts of this article around the responses I received to the two
parts of the question that I posted, starting with one of my own views, while
the third portion will be more about the duration of dramatic events in the
fandom, with potential future exploration down the line.

Let me begin with some of the thoughts that have been going through my own mind
as I work through these articles. I think that one of the biggest issues I've
seen behind the drama, at least that which I've been party to or part of, is
that furry is larger and more diverse than we expect it to be. We, as a
community, share a strong common bond in our shared interests. We have our
unique ways of interacting with each other, our unique modes of expression, and
our unique concept of character. We have gotten so good at dealing with what we
have and how that works within our subculture, that I think we believe our
group is more self-similar than it really is. With our strong connection, it's
easy for us to expect that those around us will share more than just our
interests and some of our mannerisms, that they will also share our opinions
and our eccentricities.

Part of why I started to see this was due to the fact tht many conciliatory
efforts that I saw being made publicly were posited as diplomatic ways of
informing one on how to interact with others. However, many of these efforts
come off more as ways to successfully interact with whichever party posited
them. That is, the one who attempted to solve the problem did so by assuming
the embroiled parties (even if they were one themselves) saw things the same
way that they did. While it may seem like we're a collection of mostly canids
and there is a lot of self-similarity in character creation and our shared
interests, we're just not that much alike.

In other instances, however, it appears that furry is smaller than we want to
think. We want the fandom to be large enough to accommodate every aspect of
ourselves, and we want that to include a group of friends who share the same
experiences. Furry just isn't big enough for that, though. There are going to
be clashes here and there in everything from names to interests. I ran into the
name problem, myself, years go. When I started into the fandom, I went by
Ranna, which was a name I had stolen from a book (and that's why I rarely go by
that name anymore). Of course, the minute I tried to sign up for SPR using that
name, I was rejected due to there already being one there.  Same for Tapestries
- a different Ranna, in fact.

In the long run, I really shouldn't have been surprised that I ran into other
"Ranna"s out there. We all wanted to be sure in our own little parts of the
fandom, though, and so actually running into someone with the same name was a
bit of a shock. The fandom just wasn't big enough to hold that, though, and so
we run into all these instances of people knowing friends we thought they would
never know, and we find out that those friends maybe know much mores about us
and our relationships than we had previously thought - this was something that
happened to be twice within the past few weeks, actually: a friend I had known
for a while under a different name didn't know that I wrote for
\[adjective\]\[species\].

The drama, here, comes perhaps from the fact that it's easier to speak about
other groups of friends within our groups of friends. It's easy for me to talk
about drama at work when I get home and, with a filter in place of course, vice
versa. Similarly, it's easy for me to ramble on about some of the goings on in
my offline life to my online friends, but things get difficult when it turns
out that someone I talk to online knows more about the relationships than I had
thought. This is another downside of our heavy interaction on the Internet:
it's so easy to say something to one group of friends and a different, perhaps
contradictory thing to another group that could spark some strife when the
information is shared between the groups.  Enough from me, though, on to what
others have to say.

> Minority identity acts as a force multiplier on social dynamics. In-feuds
> carry the implicit baggage of membership.
>
> \- krtbuni

Although is is a tough statement to unpack, I feel that
it captures a lot of what may actually be going on within the fandom. By
belonging to a discrete segment of society, we are all members of a "minority
group". Members is too gentle of a word, even; this is something that we feel
is part of ourselves. For many of us, furry is part of our identity. The
downside of that, is that every interaction within or about that social context
of which we are a part is also about part of ourselves. That's the force
multiplier: that there is some drama that may not even be connected to us makes
little different when our membership carries this implicit baggage with it.

Every interaction that happens within some circle that's important to us
becomes a part of us in a way. If you are Jewish (disclaimer: I am not),
antisemitism can have a very real effect on your life, whether or not you
experience directly; if you are an African-American (disclaimer: I'm 1/16th
black, but that means very little), the racism that our country still struggles
to overcome may impact you in a very real way, even if it may not seem like it
from it outside. Accordingly, if a tv show misrepresents the fandom of which
you are a member, it is very easy to feel personally misrepresented, or if
there is a fight between two furs in which you agree with one side, it's easy
to feel as if it is your fight as well. This would explain the way in which
what seems like a relatively small bit of drama snowballs out of proportion
once others know about it.

> Any community whose central theme revolves around crafted image has inflated
> drama. see: art, acting, politics, high school etc.
>
> \- \_am3thyst

This is similar to the above quote in that it has to do with the fact that we
are members of a community, and that fact is what makes us a little more
dramatic. However, this touches on some of what I've mentioned before here on
the blog. Specifically, our whole subculture is based on the fact that we
interact not with our selves, but with constructed personas that are
intentionally misrepresentative - granted, in the relatively innocuous way of
being a different species, or perhaps a different gender. The downside of this,
of course, is that we are not our characters.

> We have the same amount as other fandoms. Ours are just in the
> forefront unfortunately.
>
> \- Adonai_Rifki

You know, it may just be due to the online nature of many of our interactions
that the perceived level of drama is so high within the fandom. Having spent a
good portion of my childhood years with a step-brother and two step-sisters
taught me that there is, indeed, plenty of drama in the real world. I used to
keep a toy on the frame of my step-brother's and my bunk bed that I would move
from one end of the bed to the other as he annoyed me to sleep - my own version
of "I'm going to count to three..." - which of course just caused him to act
out all the more and led to fights. I was a real brat, growing up...

So really, being around drama wasn't something that's unique or new when I
joined the fandom, I had been around it all the while growing up. The thing
that changed instead, was the visibility of the drama, as everything was now
written down and immortalized somewhere. Even if you're hanging out in a MUCK
or IRC server, the text will still linger there on the screen until its pushed
off the top, and even then, it resides in scrollbacks and countless logs. I
found a log from years and years ago chock full of drama the other day and sent
it to an acquaintance who had been involved, and everything was still fresh to
the both of us. The text had endured and, along with it, the drama behind it.
That is the same drama we complain about on twitter and FA: every time
something happens and hundreds of people make journals about it, the drama
explodes and becomes all the more visible, and often winds up outlasting even
the original problem itself by quite a wide margin - "Krystal can't enjoy her
sandwich", anyone?

-----

In the next episode of The Dramagogues, we'll be looking into potential reasons
why the fandom might either be more dramatic or think it's more dramatic than
the world around it.
