---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/03/14/doxa/
title: Doxa
slug: doxa
date: 2012-03-14
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
- Data
---

I'm sure I've gone on before about the benefits of working within a community,
but I'll say it again: you guys are ace.

While running the [\[a\]\[s\] Twitter Account](http://twitter.com/adjspecies), I
do my best to follow back everyone who follows the account.  This isn't simply a
nice-guy type thing to do; some of the best inspiration comes from all you
fuzzies out there.  After all, the articles here would get pretty boring if they
were solely about what it was like to be a furry without being a member of the
furry subculture.  This week's article comes from a recommendation and brief
conversation with [Drenthe](https://twitter.com/itsdrenthe), a raccoon of
quality, about a book he had seen a review of which I subsequently purchased.
 The book was Hanne Blank's [*Straight: The Surprisingly Short History of
Heterosexuality*](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0807044431/).  I think it's
fairly obvious by now how much gender and sexuality interest me.

One of the early chapters of the book brings up an interesting concept that I
only recently thought to apply to the fandom, and that's the concept of
*doxa*.<!--more-->

Doxa, from the Greek meaning "popular belief", has come to mean something very
specific in sociology today.  Doxa is everything that goes without saying in a
society.  In Blank's book, she uses it to describe the fact that, for the
majority of our western society, it goes without saying that heterosexuality is
the norm, that homosexuality has to do with two people in a binary gender system
engaging in sexual activity or feeling romantically attracted to each other,
when, on close inspection, neither sexuality nor gender are quite so simple.
 This is part of our doxa, part of what we just assume is the case via popular
belief.  It is rarely taught explicitly, and in fact rarely ever mentioned out
loud because it is so common a belief.

This concept shows itself primarily in language and communication, though it's
also visible in many of the social structures of the society.  One of the most
common linguistic elements surrounding doxa, Blank asserts, is markedness, or
marked categories.  That is, two categories related by a rule and an exception,
or a general category and a specific category.  For a pertinent example, one
might consider the unmarked term "marriage" and the marked term "gay marriage".
Or perhaps in the language of media, this could be "advertisements" and "girls'
advertisements", which in [Chandler's "Semiotics for
Beginners"](http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/S4B/sem05.html) is marked by
"significantly longer shots, significantly more dissolves (fade out/fade in of
shot over shot), less long shots and more close-ups, less low shots, more level
shots and less overhead shots".

All of this, of course, got me wondering about what sort of doxa and marked
categories we have within the fandom.  Culture as whole has the givens and the
goes-without-sayings, and individual subcultures, as parts of that whole, are
just as susceptible to their own specific doxa.  I've [written
before](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/02/01/eighty-twenty/) about some of the
stages of growth of an individual within western gay popular culture, and those,
in their own way, are a sort of doxa, if it goes without saying that younger
members of that culture go through their phases of discovery.

One of the big problems with discerning doxa amid that noisy channel of
communication that is language and media is difficult, and it is most often
found when it is challenged, such as when one notices a marked category.  After
all, doxa is not a static thing: it changes and grows or fades as the society
around it advances or declines.  Here are just a few of the things I've noticed
within the fandom that could be called doxa, though as they're all either
currently being challenged or have already been challenged, they may sound a
little dated.  To be sure, finding any sort of doxa that is currently
well-entrenched is nearly impossible - it's difficult to ask oneself what one
takes for granted, after all.

* **Everyone has a personal character** - When I first started getting into the
fandom and learning more about furry, it seemed as though the first thing you
did was choose a species and attributes that fit your personality and did your
level best to let that character become you.  Everyone I knew had a character
that fit them well and only a few I knew had alts, which were mainly used to
either sneak around or separate adult aspects of their interactions from more
general aspects.  However, over time, I noticed that many of my friends (and me,
for that matter) started to create different characters or at least different
morphs to correspond to different aspects of their personality.  It wasn't so
much that one was just a foxman anymore; one was a foxman when chatting with
friends, a foxgirl when questioning one's gender identity, a wolverineman to
roleplay stronger emotions, and so on.

  While this was likely the case even when I was still in my "fursona" stage, I
  think that things have become more clearly separated now as we get into such
  things as character auctions and "adoptables", where one creating a character
  no longer has much to do with the personal aspect of *having* a character.
   Now that the doxa of having a personal character is being challenged, you see
  more and more people on FA having journals listing their many characters, only
  a few of which they may have a personal connection with beyond simply "this is
  mine".

* **Furry is dramatic** - As I mentioned in my [previous
post](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/02/29/the-dramagogues-episode-3-making-waves/),
it seems as though a meme will move in a certain arc shape that has become
familiar.  That post was about the larger meme of drama within the fandom, but
even that one can be seen to be moving in certain ways.  Whereas before it was
considered implicit that furries were going to be dramatic people, now it is
something that we hang lampshades on nearly constantly - heck, some of us even
write introspective meta-furry articles about the subject - and it seems that a
lot of that default-to-drama attitude is starting to fade away.  Just like all
of the smaller bits of strife within the larger world of drama, the drama itself
is starting to move in that same arc.   It is a doxa that is being challenged by
the very fact that we're so willing to point it out and name it.

* **Furry is unpopular or uncool**- Kathleen Gerbasi, referencing the infamous
*Vanity Fair* article, mentions, "The furry stereotype promoted by \[the
article's author\] indicated that furries were predominantly male, liked cartoons
as children, enjoyed science fiction, were homosexual, wore glasses and had
beards (male furries only), were employed as scientists or in computer-related
fields, and their most common totem animals were wolves and foxes", which does
seem to fit in nicely with our own exploration of what might be the [default
furry](http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/09/the-default-furry/) in the fandom.
Needless to say, it doesn't paint the picture of what one might call a cool or
popular guy.

  However, as the fandom has grown and changed, it has entered into a marketing
  feedback loop: the more furs there are out there with purchasing power, the
  more money is to be made on them by creating products to suit their tastes,
  which in turn, helps to broaden the audience of furries out there.  At some
  point, it became cool and hip to adopt some items that could be seen as
  related to our fandom, if not necessarily to be furry oneself.  Spirit hoods,
  tails, and kigurumi pajamas are some examples of how this doxa has been
  challenged even from outside the fandom itself.

It's important to note, here that there is a blurry line between doxa and
opinion.  One can hold an opinion as a belief and even believe in it quite
strongly, but doxa are things that we implicitly believe are true about the
society in which we're embedded, things that we take as fact.  The reason that
the line is blurry is that, not only is it sometimes difficult to disentangle
opinion from perceived fact, but that as doxa shifts and changes over time, it
can veer closer or farther way from opinion.

Watching the shift and change of what we take as given within the fandom is a
good way to watch the way our subculture grows and changes, itself.  As we watch
these ideas shift from doxa to a division between orthodoxy and heterodoxy -
that which is accepted as normal, and that which is seen as going against the
norm - to an accepted variety, we can see the way that new members influence the
fandom and how external factors can change our social interaction.  The
perceived sexualization of furry and the consequent backlash from both older and
newer members can be seen as part of this, for example, and there are even
visible artifacts such as the numerous 'not yiffy' and 'no RP' groups on FA
being tagged on artists' and watchers' profiles alike.  That is just one
example, however, of a shorter change that has shown how the fandom is shifting
along with its members' participation.

So is doxa good or bad?  That's a tough question to answer.  Doxa may be one of
those things that "just is".  It's an artifact of the way we work as individuals
as well as the way our societies are built.  Certainly, some doxa cause harm to
individuals and minorities, and even within those minorities, sub-doxa of a sort
can cause additional problems in the form of backlash, but commonly held beliefs
and ideas are part of the glue that holds us together in cultures.  Even within
our own fandom, there are several currents and ideas that form the shifting
background of whatever furry *is*.  Equally difficult to ask, then, is what is
the next doxa?  What new ideas will we find out we are taking for granted when
they're challenged?  What commonly held beliefs will lead to contention in the
future of our small group of animal-people?  While it is difficult to look
within ourselves and figure these things out now beyond searching for marked
categories, it certainly bears exploration once they come to light.
