---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/18/the-dramagogues-episode-2-drama/
title: The Dramagogues - Episode 2 - Drama
slug: the-dramagogues-episode-2
date: 2012-01-18
categories:
- Essay
---

In the last post about drama, I wondered whether or not we, as a community,
really were more dramatic than those around us, and if so, why, or if not, why
we seem to think we are.  Much of the content of that post came from responses
to a few questions on twitter. Perhaps the best thing about our fandom is our
willingness and ability to communicate, and that really is the basis of much of
these articles,  I had asked previously whether or not we were more dramatic
and why, and gotten several very succinct answers as to why that might be the
case, Beyond that, however, I also asked if our drama is in some way different
than that in the world around us, and got several additional responses to this
question, which is the basis for this, the second episode of The
Dramagogues.<!--more-->

> Yes. Furry drama sheds and gets all over everybody.
>
> \- rustitobuck

While this response may have been provided tongue-in-cheek, I think it does
illustrate something that we do fairly well: appropriate. Furries are very,
very good at deciding what is furry and what is not, and will do so every
chance they get. There was a book published several years ago, The Architect of
Sleep by Steven R. Boyett, which featured anthropomorphic raccoons as its
characters. The author did not intend for them to be furry, and had originally
planned on the book being the first in a series, but the response from the
fandom was so outsized and, from the author's standpoint, creepy, that he
refused to continue the series with the fandom's response being the reason why
(he was not so polite in his wording).

We are so eager to appropriate things around us in the name of our fandom that
it could be that, whether or not our drama is indeed all that different, we
have made it ours. It may be just drama, but, being involved in the fandom, it
becomes Furry Drama. There are, of course, some issues that may be unique to
our subculture such as the intellectual property one has in a character, but it
feels sometimes as though we could stick cat ears and a tail on any old problem
and turn it into a furry problem. If you get short changed at the farmers
market, you can complain about it,and if the artist you paid $5 for an icon
takes a few days too long, you can do much the same, but it's now possible to
make it into a furry problem.

> not particularly. the irony of the furry fandom is that it's more human than humans are.
>
> \- \_am3thyst

Another way to look the same issue is to consider that our drama is simply an
artifact of us being a slice of humanity as a whole. Humans have their own
little dramas that are being played out all the time. However, humans aren't a
small, rather tightly knit group of people with many things in common. While
all our problems may be relatively human,it could be that we just read more
deeply into them because of our commonalities. On the other side, because we
read so deeply into them, we do tend to be more focused on the day-to-day human
dramas of our fellows. I think that may indeed be why we are so closely
knitting the first place, at least in part.

This is one of those good-for-you scenarios. Even though the drama around us
is...well, drama, it's still an instance of us interacting, which is a good
thing, and the fact that we are so emotionally tied to the issues at hand is
evidence of our emotional investment within the fandom.  I used to wonder what
the fandom would be like without all of the drama at seems to come with the
package, and I think I've come to the conclusion that I just wouldn't like it
that much. It's not that it.s comforting by itself, so much as that it's
evidence of how much we care about our hobby. If furry were something where
being involved didn't mean enough for one to get emotionally invested, really
don't think that it would be something that I would've stuck with this long,
nor something that would've grown as fast as it has, even if it means focusing
on our all-to-human problems.

> Drama is drama, regardless of who says it or the content.
>
> \- Adonai_Rifki

I mentioned a quote in the last post, "Minority identity acts as a force
multiplier on social dynamics. In-feuds carry the implicit baggage of
membership".  Perhaps our drama really is just drama and has no special furry
significance, and although the Internet likely has its effects on the issues
involved, it could just be that our membership in the community makes us feel
obligated to interpret things in a furry context. This quote does well to tie
together the previous two in that it brings together the "content" being
appropriated and the "who" of us just being people.

Our membership in this group carries the implicit membership in the drama
therein. By taking it onto ourselves and turning it into the fandom's drama, we
may wind up blowing it out of proportion (or way, way out of proportion), even
though it's still just a little spat between individuals, as would happen
between any groups of people. Still, it's comforting to know that we can do so
much together, even fighting among ourselves.

> I'd say any look at Facebook would say no.
>
> \- mousit

On the other hand, perhaps it's not our membership to the fandom that makes us
so keyed into each other's drama, and our drama seems different and out of
proportion because we happen to be tech-savvy people.  The benefit of anonymity
provided by the Internet, or at least a lack of direct consequences for our
words and actions could be part of why it's so easy to turn any little thing
into drama.  Perhaps our reliance on such a medium in order to properly express
ourselves has its downsides: both an enhanced sensitivity to the language used
around us (due to its relative permanence as compared to speech) and the
ability to maintain a structured, even institutionalized facade presented to
those around us.

Before I got into furry, I got into the Internet and some of its culture.  I've
mentioned before that I started out on some bulletin boards in about 1999, and
we were no strangers to drama there, either.  With communication on the
Internet, it's easy and even encouraged to "write for your audience", to steal
a term. Speech is very extemporaneous and it's easy to have a slip of the
tongue or to say something potentially offensive without meaning to
(foot-in-mouth syndrome), but it's much easier to write with a purpose, rather
than extemporaneously. That is, even when you're discussing the relative merits
of two different restaurants, you are writing with a very specific goal,
reading and reread in what you've written, and making sure, even if only
subconsciously, that you present yourself at your best. At the same time,
however, you know that others are doing just the same and thus tend to pay a
good amount of attention to language that's being used around you.

In furry, this structured presentation of self has become institutionalized in
the concept of one's character, no matter how tightly associated the individual
is with it.  Even on visual media such as SecondLife, our interactions take
place as structured language intentionally built to deceive, in a way. We
intend to show ourselves as our characters and we write carefully in order to
do so.  Perhaps this is a symptom of furry, but it seems as though it's built
into the Internet as a whole. The ability to maintain near-real-time
communication using text allows one to build up whatever facade they wish while
still coming off as a real person. The drama here comes up when a bit of that
facade slips or is let down in order to share an honest opinion with someone,
or let loose with some previously hidden emotions. This happened nearly as
often in the boards I had been a member of as it does within furry, but seeing
as how we were all a bunch of hormone-saturated teenagers, I had chalked it up
to that, instead. Having been around the 'net as an adult now, I can say that
we're just as childish (if not moreso, sometimes) as we were when we were
teenagers when presented with the opportunity for anonymity, however partial.

If I were asked to give an opinion on the spot as to whether furry drama is
different than regular drama, I would say no.  Within the fandom, we have some
very ordinary problems, and I don't think that our membership to this
subculture changes the problems we have in any way.  However, I would not be
able to say that without a caveat: our membership does change the way in which
we interpret drama. Our problems may be very similar to those among any
predominately text-based culture, but our focus on our characters adds a
strange twist to everything we do here, including fighting.

-----

Tune in next time as we look at the way drama changes and fluctuates over time
within the fandom, as well as how that is similar and different from the world
at large.  The Dramagogues, only on \[adjective\]\[species\]! Wednesdays, 12pm
mountain! (Okay, so I wouldn't do well in TV...)
