---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/05/23/spiritual-animals/
slug: spiritual-animals
title: Spiritual Animals
date: 2012-05-23
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
---

Spirituality is one of those slippery words that can be ridiculously hard to pin
down.   I've found that you can usually tell when one of those is coming up by
looking at the length of it's Wikipedia article, as odd as that sounds.  If the
article can basically get right to the point and then spends the rest of the
time exploring fine details such as history, examples, and important figures,
then the topic is not likely very complex to define.  If it wanders down a long
path, peppered with links, is topped with a sidebar and tailed by a category
box...well, needless to say that
[Spirituality](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spirituality)'s Wikipedia
article is a prime example of a "difficult topic".

It really seems to come down to the fact that spirituality means different
things to different people, has to do with the search for meaning in things that
we don't understand and don't seem to be explainable by science, and is
self-referential: numinous things are spiritual, spirituality has to do with
numinous things.  While my gut instinct tells me that the concept of a spiritual
fur has been on the decline in recent years, I still see and hear mention of it
quite frequently, in some form or another.  Us spiritual animals have rich
histories to draw on, adopt, and appropriate, not to mention the ones we create
for ourselves, and we seem to have done so with a will.<!--more-->

"Spiritual" can be used to describe many things, and means many different things
to different people, of course.  To some it's a way or means of exploring issues
or answering questions to which they do not have an answer, and to others it's
more of an adjective attached to things that are inexplicable, and yet to others
it's a state of being they maintain throughout their lives.  In general, though,
it all seems to have to do with meaning.  I've gone
[on](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/11/meaning-within-a-subculture-part-1/)
(and
[on](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/12/meaning-within-a-subculture-part-2/)
and
[on](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/13/meaning-within-a-subculture-part-3/))
about the importance of meaning as it pertains to furries, and, as part of my
preparation for writing this article, I went back through my notes.  As I did
so, it became clear that this fixation on meaning involved with spirituality is
thoroughly tangled up with furry.  After all, what would be more obvious as we
investigate the meaning of creating an avatar of ourselves as some other species
than to consider the spiritual side?

I must add the caveat that spirituality is by no means a universal with those
that identify or are interested in furries and anthropomorphics.  In fact,
atheists and agnostics seem to outnumber those who identify with a particular
spiritual path such as Christianity or paganism.  This is, of course, referring
only to [responses](http://vis.adjectivespecies.com/furrysurvey/religion.html)
on a survey to a question utilizing the word 'religion' rather than
spirituality, and in this respect, my gut feeling is that it's fairly accurate.
 However, I do get the feeling that many who may have responded with 'atheist'
or 'agnostic' might still feel, in some way, spiritual.   I, for example, fall
within the agnostic slice of that pie (or, well, doughnut), yet still can't deny
experiences that I could only call spiritual, at least at the time.  This, along
with similar sentiments held by several friends, is harder to quantify, yet
still a valid point to make: our reactions to the unknown and our explorations
of meaning go beyond simply the actions taken to explore those things, touching
also our emotional and intellectual outlook on life.

Of all of the spiritual influences within the furry fandom, two seem to be far,
far more prevalent than any others: the loose-weaved generalization of "Native
American" spirituality and some aspects of Japanese spirituality.  The former
may well have been a product of the '80s and '90s, when many of those who
responded to Klisoura's survey were born, and which featured, among other
things, a spike or resurgence of interest in Native American spirituality.  The
reason that I mentioned this as a loose-weaved generalization and then put
"Native American" in quotes is that it is difficult to pin down "Native
American" spirituality to just one tribe; rather, it seems to be a collection of
influences from several North and South American tribes (some notable ones being
the Chippewa, from whence came much of the writings on Totemism; many tribes
more focused on shamanism as it's traditionally described through central
America, with a focus on Power or Spirit Animals; and down into the South
American continent, which provides art and architecture from the Inca and the
like).  Many furries who incorporate elements of these spiritual origins into
their own lives seem to do so because of the draw provided by the very concept
of Totemism: the fact that one might have a power animal, that one might share
aspects of that animal's personality or physical attributes, and that one might
draw personal or spiritual power from such a totem provides a clear draw for
those interested in anthropomorpics.

On the other side of the world, however, the Japanese have amassed a large
amount of folklore surrounding many different animals.  The tales that surround
foxes and the native raccoon dogs (*N. procyonoides*) in the most
pertinent forms of *kitsune* and *tanuki* are those that are most
familiar to the western-dominated furry subculture.  These two in particular,
but other supernatural beings (*yōkai*) related to animals such as the
Beckoning Cat (*maneki neko*) have crept into western culture through
various media outlets, and specifically into the popular furry fandom through
the crossover links with the anime fandom.  With their connotations of
shapeshifting, of being in a relationship, and of animals interacting with the
world around them in supernatural ways, it's unsurprising that the fandom would
draw much from these.

These, of course, are only two examples of the way spirituality and folklore
have influenced the furry fandom and woven ties deep into our subculture,
influencing everything from the ways we feel about our connection to animals to
something as simple (well, "simple") as character creation.  Many of the most
popular species out there are related in some way to a species that is important
to at least one culture in a spiritual way.  Wolves have their legends in both
North America and Europe, horses have their adherents in Scandinavia and
throughout Eurasia, foxes and coyotes have their trickster backgrounds (not to
mention jackals and many other such canids), and even kangaroos have their own
legends to go with them, not to mention the spirituality that goes along with
big cats all over the world.

\It seems that part of what draws us to the idea of anthropomorphism is the
meaning attached to an animal.  Whether that means that an individual is
influenced in their character by the spiritual associations or that their
spiritual associations are influenced by their subconscious choice of character
likely varies by the individual, but the important aspect seems to be that it
adds intensity to the choice.  When one person elects to create a character of a
fox, they may do so because that species offers the intensity of meaning, that
certain "it just fits" *je ne sais quoi* that helps to complete the
process of character creation.  It's a powerful sensation, one supposes, and
just as often leads to a proliferation of characters in order to fit all those
intense moments in life, or one character locked down forever that provides the
best fit in all scenarios.

This is evident beyond just the spiritual associations that are attached to
certain species, though "spiritual" being such a difficult word to pin down,
that's a broad statement in itself.  Many individuals may find that intensity of
meaning provided by the social connotations of species that are not necessarily
considered spiritual, in the traditional sense of the word (though I should note
that the Wikipedia page for "tradition" is nearly as complex as that for
"spirituality").  Dogs, for instance, carry significance in the society beyond
the legendary, though many contemporary works have started to include some of
that in their status. Specifically, dogs seem to be drifting toward some
apotheosis of animal companionship, as evidenced by works such as
*Shiloh*, *Old Yeller*, *Lassie*, *Where the Red Fern
Grows*, and [countless
others](http://www.abebooks.com/books/famous-dog-novels-lassie-marley/dogs-fiction.shtml).
 Dogs are only one example, however; house cats, race and work horses, and many
others all have built up their own social significance that adds to the meaning
of the character one creates.

The thing that got me thinking about this in the first place was a hashtag that
floats around twitter once a week: #TMITuesday.  It's really no secret that
people change throughout their lives around adolescence, and I am no different.
 I have, on one of my bookshelves, books that range from the Bible to the Quran,
the Celestine Prophecy to books on tarot cards (not to mention a modest
collection of decks).  I was very, very much into the concept of spirituality,
specifically the introspective aspects of it (as if that wasn't obvious), and
amassed quite a collection of materials related to that interest.  My choice of
characters, then, was not mere consequence.  As I was first getting into the
fandom, I began as a red fox, taking from the species many spiritual aspects
both learned and imagined.  I created my character based around the intensity of
meaning surrounding a supposed slyness, a dash of mystery, and a generous
helping of playfulness that I gleaned from outside sources and my own thoughts.

As time went on, that shifted toward arctic fox after sifting through vague
correlations in much the same way that I learned to read tarot cards; I felt
snarky, arctic foxes looked snarky stealing bits of food from polar
bears, thus a correlation was demonstrated.  Another example was the
way in which I changed with the seasons.  What might be called Seasonal
Affective Disorder in others, I deemed in a hazy way a correlation between the
way the arctic fox's coat goes from a fluffy white to a scraggly
salt-and-pepper.  Even as my interest in spirituality waned over time, I still
felt the need for that intensity.

Other species choices were much more, well, specious.  I created a wolverine
character meant mostly to get different reactions in places I frequented on
MUCKs, and the whole otter thing was due mostly to wanting to get a fursuit, but
finding out that white fur can be hard to make look how you want. This intensity
of meaning became evident in the different ways I felt interacting as each of
the characters in turn.  There was something distinctly lacking from my
interactions as a wolverine and an otter, and making them "mine", as it were,
took a force of effort, rather than being a consequence of my selection, having
some sort of spiritual or social meaning behind their creation.  I failed with
Happenstance, the wolverine character, and I succeeded only through force of
will (and money well spent on a fursuit) with Macchi, the otter character.

In many bookstores, there is a certain area, usually just a shelf or section of
a shelf, sometimes an entire room dedicated to the act of the practical,
personal application of spiritual ideas.  Many focus on meditation practices,
prayer, research, manipulation of certain objects, or even diets and other
practical matters.  Others provide descriptions and hint at exercises intended
to guide one down their own exploratory spiritual path rather than provide clear
directions of one sort or another.  I prowled my way through this section often
through at least one period in my life.  Many members of our subculture, and
countless more outside the contiguous fandom, whether they identify more with
therians, weres, some other subculture, or none at all, have found a way to
integrate many aspects of what is called spirituality readily into their lives,
however.  We seem to have done well by ourselves in that respect, making
something as important as identification of a personal spirit animal, totemic
guide, or other spiritual-animal connection a part of our day-to-day lives.

I know that this is a large topic, and I know that I have not done it justice,
due to my incomplete knowledge.  I know, for example, that I was unable to
provide adequate words to the Totemism topic that is so dear to many of my
friends, and I deliberately skirted the topic of more conventional, more
organized religions on the grounds that I have very little experience with such
things, and don't know too much of how furry interacts with the social aspect of
spirituality as structured in religion beyond a few conversations I've had with
a very kind \[a\]\[s\] reader.  I
[know](http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/01/29/from-the-survey/) that many of you
feel a spiritual connection with furry, and I invite you to leave comments with
your own stories, thoughts, and words on the subject here, or, if such things
are too personal and you still wish to share, to email me at
[makyo@adjectivespecies.com](mailto:makyo@adjectivespecies.com).
