---
type: post
title: 'On Advertising: Part 2 - After'
slug: on-advertising-part-2-after
date: 2013-11-20
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
- Advertising
---

*(This is the follow-up to the first article, published October 9th, <a
title="On Advertising: Part 1 – Before"
href="http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/10/09/on-advertising-part-1-before/">On
Advertising: Part 1 - Before</a> which explores the hows and whys of our little
experiment in advertising.  Start there if you have yet to read it!)*

And so it's over.  We ran advertisements for one month on two furry sites to
try and gain some insight into the way furries interact both with ads and with
those sites in general. Those campaigns ended several days ago and we've been
looking over the data we have available to us, including information before,
during, and after the campaigns were over.

Let's take a look, shall we?

## \[adjective\]\[species\]

![\[adjective\]\[species\] post-ads](/assets/furry/ads/as-postads.png)

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th id="label">Campaign</th>
<th id="nb_visits">Visits</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>furaffinity</td>
<td>1486</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sofurry</td>
<td>174</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

As with any site with a publishing schedule such as
ours, one can expect the spikes around the days when articles go live.  That
was true before, as well as during and after the advertising campaign.  In
fact, though there is a visible increase in the average number of visitors, and
the campaigns do show some activity\*, this ad was less effective than both the
Love - Sex - Fur and Furry Poll ads.  I think that this was due to the
relatively calm and passive nature of the advertisement itself.  While LSF's ad
was also passive in nature, it did happen to include the word 'sex' as well as
a salacious RandomWolf in red-tinted glasses (ain't he dreamy?).  The Furry
Poll ad, on the other hand, was more of a call to action, using very active
language such as "Take part..." and "Stand up - Get counted!".

However, these numbers aren't the only ones worth taking a look at.  In
addition to the increase in visitors, the \[adjective\]\[species\] FurAffinity
account has gained 81 new watchers (and one spam note offering free anime
downloads!), and the Twitter account at least 40 new followers (Twitter will
only let me look back so far).  Even more surprising, to me, was that my own
personal FA account gained 30 new followers.  JM reports that he has also seen
an increase in followers on FA.  The amount of times that we have been
contacted via shouts, notes\*\*, and emails has increased, as well.  Several of
those who have found us (or perhaps even already knew about us) have some
delightful ideas worth exploring within the fandom, it seems!

## Love - Sex - Fur

![Love - Sex - Fur post-ads](/assets/furry/ads/lsf-postads.png)

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th id="label">
Campaign
</th>
<th id="nb_visits">Visits</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>furaffinity</td>
<td>3440</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sofurry</td>
<td>258</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

[LSF](http://lovesexfur.com)'s activity is, of course much lower than
\[a\]\[s\]'s.  I have been on something of a sabbatical\*\*\* (as I did around
this time last year), and JM has been extraordinarily helpful in carrying the
burden of \[adjective\]\[species\], but there hasn't been as much traffic to
Love - Sex - Fur, understandably. Along with 42 new watchers on FA, 24 new
Twitter followers, and another note received there, we can more easily see the
effect of advertising on site traffic without the spikes of new articles being
posted on a regular basis.

## The Furry Poll

![The Furry Poll post-ads](/assets/furry/ads/furrypoll-postads.png)

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th id="label">Campaign</th>
<th id="nb_visits">Visits</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>furaffinity</td>
<td>3440</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sofurry</td>
<td>258</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Whoa there!  Although this graph shows pretty clearly the start and end of the
ad campaign, the numbers are skewed by the graph's scaling due to a very large
jump on October 29th and 30th.  As far as is visible from the referrers list
during that time, the <a href="http://furrypoll.com" target="_blank">survey</a>
was shared in two large furry groups on Facebook (which ones are, of course,
not visible to us).

The presence of furries on Facebook has always felt somewhat surprising to me.
 I do not shrink from sharing my membership with this subculture in contexts
outside of the fandom.  I go by Makyo on work's IRC servers, I use the same old
dapper-fox-drinking-a-gin-and-tonic icon <a href="https://github.com/makyo"
target="_blank">on GitHub</a>, where some of our code is stored, and I've even
used <a href="http://vis.adjectivespecies.com/microsurvey/2011/"
target="_blank">one of the \[a\]\[s\] visualizations</a> to prove a point about
overwhelming amounts of data during a meeting.  Something about the way that
Facebook promotes unmediated sharing and monetizing of information rubs me the
wrong way, however.  Perhaps this is a holdover from my early-adopter days,
when Facebook was touted as the best way for students to connect and share
photos and such with each other, when it was restricted to university students.
 For me, the site still feels like the very mundane (in all senses of the term)
social media network, focused primarily on staying in touch with classmates.

However, I know that's not the case, as I've seen several incoming spikes such
as this show up from links being shared on Facebook.  For those of you who are
active in a furry context on Facebook, how do you manage your identity there?
 Do you have a separate furry-only profile, or do you mix in all circles with
one profile?

And to whomever shared a link to the furry survey on Facebook, cheers!  Of all
of the sites included in this exercise, the survey is the one that will benefit
the most from increased exposure. It's important that we get as many responses
from all around the world as possible to provide a clearer picture of our
community.  Given the single-use nature of the survey site, the dramatic
decrease in numbers after the campaign's end is not too surprising: after all,
there's no reason to revisit the site more than once a year!

## Bookmarfs!

![Bookmarfs! post-ads](/assets/furry/ads/bookmarfs-postads.png)

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th id="label">Campaign</th>
<th id="nb_visits">Visits</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>furaffinity</td>
<td>1017</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sofurry</td>
<td>117</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

[Bookmarfs!](http://bookmarfs.com) is an unrelated project, but one that also
needed an advertisement. Additionally, once I noticed that all of our ads
followed the same format, I took a different path with this one: no striped
background, simple and to the point.  The ad was actually strikingly effective
during the period it was shown, given the relatively low initial interest and
the (current) rate at which we post: twice a month, usually on the same day -
once for the discussion of the past month's book and once to announce the next
month's book.  We also received 14 new watchers on FA and 10 new followers on
Twitter.  

## Conclusions

I think that the advertising experiment was useful in seeing just how the
fandom utilizes advertising.  Judging by personal interactions with friends and
through comments here on the previous post, our reaction to advertising is
decidedly mixed.  Several people I have heard from have described ads in
general to be intrusive and a nuisance, especially on the Internet.  However, I
am not the only one who turns off ad-blockers on furry sites such as
FurAffinity and SoFurry.  Part of it is that I know that a higher percentage of
ads are, by the very virtue of their existence on these sites, targeted toward
my interests.  However, and I'm not alone in thinking this way, it's also good
to know that a lot of the people posting these ads are individuals, sharing an
interest in common with me, who are doing their best to get by in life doing
something they love.

This, in fact, is one of the reasons that I ran these ads only in month-long
intervals.  \[adjective\]\[species\] projects (and Bookmarfs!) are all projects run
out of pocket with no profit incentive.  We sell no products or services, and
we write because that's what we love to do.  Our readership is fantastic, and
we would love to grow that, but it's also nice to give the space to the
creators who are doing their best to <a title="Art and Money"
href="http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/07/11/art-and-money/"
target="_blank">make a living</a> in our little subculture.

Advertising <em>does</em> play a role in our community, and I think that these
few examples have shown just how that information is transmuted into a
measurable and visible change.  For those out there questioning whether or not
their business within furry will benefit from advertising, I think this serves
as a fairly strong "yes".  I placed four ads on two high-traffic sites for a
month for just about $130 (about the cost of running all of the above sites
except for the furry survey for one year) and the results were immediate.

-----

\* The campaign numbers differ significantly from the impressions reported by
SoFurry's advert system (campaign reports 174 impressions, SoFurry reports 429
clicks for \[a\]\[s\], with similar skews for other sites).  Piwik, our metrics
tool, plays nice with AdBlock, Noscript, and other such tools, and so there are
likely several more visitors than are actually being reported by these metrics.
 However, it was still nice to get an idea of the ways in which advertising
works within our community!

Here are the actual numbers from SoFurry:

![SoFurry results](/assets/furry/ads/sofurry-results.png)

\*\* In general, notes are a poor way to get in touch with us.  Please <a
href="mailto:submit@adjectivespecies.com" target="_blank">email</a> instead!

\*\*\* Apologies for the paucity of content on my part!  However, I <em>will</em>
be attending Mid-West Fur Fest this year, so if you catch me around, I'd be
more than happy to talk shop, furry or otherwise!
