---
type: link
link: http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/01/30/furries-and-music/
slug: furries-and-music
title: Furries and Music
date: 2012-01-30
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
---

Furries and music definitely have a thing going on. I've wanted to write about
it for quite a while now, but I've never quite found the right entry point, the
right way to piece together a story about how the two might connect. I actually
started thinking about the current topic when Klisoura of Furry Survey lore was
in town over the week between Christmas and New Years, and the topic came up of
how furries have a tendency to consider themselves "ahead of the curve" when it
comes to music, television, and video games, or even trying new things, yet do
not necessarily consider themselves to be hip or paragons of pop culture
([ref](http://vis.adjectivespecies.com/microsurvey/2012/)). While I'm really as
much of a fan of new music as anybody out there in this subculture, I wasn't
quite sure how well this held up.  What the data seem to be saying is that
furries showed a tendency to eschew popular culture in favor of the type of
things that would become popular culture. While some of our number may fit
within that category, it's oddly specific for a subculture that doesn't, at its
roots, have as necessary an intersection with popular culture as might, say, the
fans of an actual genre of music, television series, or video game.

A survey is a survey, though, and can only really tell so much about those who
really should be telling the story. I turned, instead, to Twitter, and invited
an email barrage on myself to see what those who had the stories to tell had to
say about the matter, asking "Do you think furries are more or less musical than
non-furs?" and "Do you think furries are ahead of the curve in terms of
music?".<!--more-->

Let me take a step back and say that I've always been kind of fascinated with
the relationship that furries have with music. I spent the time and money (lots
of the latter) needed to get a bachelor's degree in music composition, so I've
always been, as I glibly put it on Twitter, super into music, and so I'd always
wondered if maybe it was the crowd that I hung out with that was influencing my
perceptions of furries as rather musically oriented folks, or if maybe it was
just everyone. Another thing that piqued my interest, however, was the visible
importance of music at conventions and in every-day chatter. The latter could be
explained away by the fact that a lot of folks within furry aren't going to
spend every second role-playing, of course, they're going to have conversations
about the things that interest them, and music is a natural topic even outside
the fandom. The former, however, intrigued me, even after I started regularly
attending conventions. There were dances every night. There were dance
competitions, dance competition try-outs, dance competition out-takes, dancing
in the fursuit parade, dancing for no reason. Music seemed to be everywhere,
from panels to the dealer's den, and it all made me pretty happy, if curious.

Furries, like everyone can be broken down into two, very rough, categories when
it comes to things like music: creators and consumers. The act of creation plays
a big role within the fandom, of course. Given that we are, as was famously put,
"fans of each other", we rely primarily on our own membership to create the art
and stories appreciated within our subculture. Within music, however, things are
a little more gray. The question of whether or not there is such a thing as
furry music and what might define it is one for someone else to answer, but
needless to say, there are still plenty of furry musicians. There are several
out there that create music within the context of furry, post their music to FA,
or perform at conventions (such as the jazz combo SuperPack at FC a week and
change ago). "\[T\]he environment seems more conducive to the sharing of content
in general, music included. Furry musicians have a built-in audience they can
reach that many other aspiring artists might not." Vincent writes, and I think
this is an apt description of at least part of the reason there is a music scene
within our fandom, or indeed within many subcultures.

There's one more smaller subset we should probably take into account given the
popularity of dances and the like at cons, not to mention the relative
popularity of electronic music within the fandom, and that's the wide variety of
furry DJs out there. The reasons for the popularity of this pursuit are varied,
and hinted at by several of those who wrote back. Technological aptitude,
diversity, a focus on sharing, and interest in EDM (electronic dance music) as
trends within our subculture may help guide many toward DJing as a mode of
expression, and notably as a way of sharing things important to themselves.

Beyond simply creating or creatively mixing music, though, we are avid consumers
of music, at least commensurate with our strongest demographics.
[Soto](http://twitter.com/sotopnthr) writes, "From a consumption standpoint, I
haven't found furries to deviate much from their non-furry counterpoints in the
same demographics. For example, age group.  Furries as a whole may be more
passionate about music and stay more current with trends, but furries as a whole
have that lovely age-skew toward the late teens and twenties, and that age group
is generally pretty up on their music as it stands." That is to say, we're
helped along by some of the categories that many of our members belong to in
listening to and exploring music with the sort of enthusiasm that goes along
with connoisseurship.

So, what about my two questions? As hinted about in the previous quote, opinions
are mixed on the question of whether or not furries are more musical than their
non-furry counterparts. In fact, after reading many of the responses, I don't
think the question should be whether or not furries are more musical than their
counterparts, but whether or not they have the conception that they are.
[Zenuel](http://www.furaffinity.net/user/zenuel/) offers, on the positive side,
"I like to think that the fandom simply offers more open and honest states of
being\[...\]; a furry posts to a more receptive community like FurAffinity they
generally receive more encouraging feedback, as well as having the backing of
freedom that the fandom presents to the artist in question." Vincent
acknowledges this, but warns, "This is a pro and a con, I've always seen furry
as something of a 'hugbox' where criticism isn't forbidden, but it certainly
isn't forthcoming. I've found that (at least in the realm of DJing) it's very,
very hard to get good technical feedback on how to improve, and in many
instances subpar mixing is lauded as exceptional."

One advantage that we do have that we gain from being a decently coherent
subculture is the fact that we are rather diverse in ways unrelated to some of
our stronger demographics. That is, age and gender aside, our diversity in terms
of backgrounds, social status, education, and so on does help us with the ways
in which we deal with music. As Wolfdawn put it, "just being part of a diverse
and unusual subculture would have to be a big \[plus\], since that alone makes
people more likely to have been exposed to wider range of musical interests as
they're shared among friends." I noticed a similar effect outside of furry when
I moved away from my rather homogeneous upbringing and high school to college,
where much more diversity was to be found. College was where I expanded beyond
my own choral background into genres, classical and not, far beyond what I was
used to. Furry was much the same, and in fact, much of this article was written
listening to a playlist composed almost entirely of music suggested to me by
cats, dogs, and all sorts of fuzzy creatures. In other words, are we more
musical than the non-furries that surround us? Probably not. However, do we
consider ourselves more musical than those around us at least in part because of
furry? Often times, I think so, and a lot of these responses echo that
sentiment.

As to the second question, you'll note that I put "ahead of the curve" above in
quotes. These weren't meant to be scare-quotes, necessarily, but I would like to
highlight something before I get too far. It's always very important to pay
attention to the ways in which language is used. I know, I write about words a
lot (using, of course, as many words as I can), but when I responded to the
onslaught of emails with the two questions, I tried to do so using language that
would invite people to provide longer, rather than shorter answers, because I
think that the thoughts of those being asked are much more interesting than
simple yes-or-no answers on the subject. It's the way that people interpret the
questions they're asked, sometimes, that provides a lot of the answer. I
understand that "ahead of the curve" can be a little misleading in terms of
being able to provide a concise answer, and I'm sure I could've worded it better
besides, but the answers I received in reply more than made up for it in their
thoughtful and well-put responses.

Are we ahead of the curve? A lot of folks who replied indicated that no, we're
not really all that ahead of the curve, at least not moreso than we might
necessarily be given some of our demographic skews. There are a couple of
reasons behind this, and one of the big ones is that the Internet and mass media
in general hasn't benefited only furries. "The increased visibility of various
scenes took away the relative advantage having a community that encourages
sharing," writes Vincent, and this is echoed by a lot of my own perceptions: my
composition professor went on a 'where is the drop?' joke spree with almost all
of his students once dubstep became a more visible part of the music scene
around us (the idea of being separate, here, due mostly to the fact that we were
being classically trained in composition). That aside, however,
[Branwyn](http://www.lionhearted.ca/music.htm) suggests
that many "are in the same arena as non-furs - they consume music in the same
way, influenced by the same sources, regardless of quality." That is, being
furry does not necessarily influence the ways in which we appreciate music, so
much as some of the content that we listen to. We listen to the things our
circle of friends listen to, in all probabilities, and I believe that much the
same happens when it comes to visual art, for that matter; we don't enjoy visual
art that much differently (though we do sometimes place quite a bit of
importance on a visual representation of a character -
[ref](http://adjectivespecies.com/2011/11/23/character-versus-self/)),
so much as enjoy the things that our chosen family and circle of friends also
enjoy.

A possible explanation for all of this is offered by Forneus: "Furries are, I
would argue, more musical than the mean, but not moreso than other geek
subcultures." We are, of course, not the only subculture based almost solely
around a shared, intense interest. The My Little Pony fandom has created a
wealth of their own music, not to mention filking, which as a long and
well-established tradition. Several of those who responded to the questions
touched on the points of geekdom and technology, along with their ties to the
fandom. One respondent talked at length about the fact that there are readily
available tools on the market now, and, despite the fact that many, given such
tools, will create music that might not be the best in terms of musicality and
technical ability, they are still creating quite a bit (my own experiences with
Reason are a testament to this, of course). "I think that if you put the tools
in front of furries, they are more willing to try creating music than regular
people," echoes Nathaniel Hahn; this does well at pointing out the fact that,
rather than being more innately musical or musically hip, we may simply be
focused on putting something out there given the tools we have for our
subculture to enjoy.

Satori sums it up well, "We have geeks of all kinds, and some geek on their
music. Others are too into geeking on other things that they don't make the time
for it much." We're just us, in the end. We're a good mix of musical and
non-musical fuzzies, no more or less of a mix than the world at large. We have
things working to our advantage, such as our broad social circles, diversity,
geekdom, the Internet, and so on, but no matter how large a part music plays
within the fandom, we're still just us, and some of us will create, and others
will consume. We're no less interesting for being a good mix, of course, and
music does still appear to be quite important to us, but in the end, we're
plenty good at focusing on being and appreciating animal folk.
