---
type: post
title: Trends Within Trends
slug: trends-within-trends
date: 2014-06-25
categories:
- Essay
tags:
- About furry
- Gender
---

![Tiny foxes: good for comforting](/assets/furry/trends-within-trends/kb-tinyfoxcomfort1.jpg)

It started innocuously enough with a tweet. I don't remember the exact phrasing
of it, but I had been having a rough day and was feeling the need for some sort
of protective affection that I just couldn't quite find offline; I'm rather
tall and so it's hard for me to find a way that's comfortable for all parties
involved to get that sensation of being held and protected. I think I wound up
tweeting something silly to the effect of "I just want to curl up in a shirt
pocket where it's warm, cozy, and hidden." I suppose I've always been a bit of
a sap.

Like most things with far-reaching consequences, this start into the
exploration of the "micro" side of the furry fandom had a seemingly
inconsequential beginning. I've <a title="Interpreting an Avatar"
href="http://adjectivespecies.com/2013/01/02/interpreting-an-avatar/"
target="\_blank">mentioned before</a> that, after changing the ways in which I
interacted online, several people treated me as though I were smaller than I
really am (helped, no doubt, by the combination of text-only interaction and
the lack of any specified height in my character description). With that
trivial sentence, however, it suddenly became explicit, and before long I was
interacting with those around me specifically as a tiny anthropomorphic fox.

![Tiny foxes: good for making hammocks in your antlers](/assets/furry/trends-within-trends/kb-makyohammock1.jpg)

This is one of those things that feels incredibly silly to write about in such
plain terms. For me, however, it was a new twist on the ways in which I
interacted in familiar surroundings. Everyday objects and friends became
towering structures to scale, and media such as MUCKs and Twitter became my <a
href="https://storify.com/drab_makyo/microfox-text-adventure-game"
target="_blank">playground</a>. In short, it felt like a new means of
interacting with the furry community as a whole, akin to the way I felt when I
first discovered the subculture.

And yet, much was still the same. I was still pretending to be a foxperson on
the Internet. My friends-group remained much the same. Nothing else had really
changed in my life, except suddenly, I was part of a community within a
community: a sub-subculture. It came with a label: micro.

Furry, as a label, is really much too broad to be meaningful except in the most
general of scenarios. It's like saying "Americans" when we know that, with a
population of almost 320 million people, that there are bound to be, for
instance, people who describe themselves as "staunch democrats" or "devout
Christians", though, of course, even those labels are far too broad in some
cases. "Staunch democrats" does not take into account the actual politics and
core beliefs of an individual any more than "devout Christian" takes into
account the denomination of Christianity of the devout.

![Tiny foxes: good for booping noses](/assets/furry/trends-within-trends/kb-avery4_7.png)

So it is that we wind up with trends within the larger trend of furry, and
trends within those as well. Micro, as a trend, was a new one to me, and thus
the sensation of newness that reminded me so much of joining furry in the first
place.

I've been a part of various different groups within the larger group of furry
before, of course, just as we all are. I'd identified with gay furries, then
fell out of that as a means of identification as my sexuality matured. I've
identified with trans\* and genderqueer furries as well, as my sense of self
has grown over the last several years. The list goes on, as I'm sure it does
for all of us when we boil our interests down to labels and identities. Why is
that, though?

Part of the reason I think that these trends within trends are as big a thing
as they are is that a trend, a label, an identity, or even a kink can offer one
a sense of community. It's all well and good to be a tiny fox - or genderqueer
for that matter - and feel that one has found an identity that makes one feel
comfortable. However, it is the sense of community, of belonging to a larger
group that adds completeness to that and can help make us feel truly whole.

Also, these interests or identities, when taken up by a group, help to generate
interest and identity in others by the force of their own presence. That is,
while I really rather liked anthropomorphic animals and playing zoomorphic
games while growing up, realizing that there was a community that bases its
very existence off such things led me into the fandom. Similarly, while I never
felt wholly comfortable with my gender while younger, it was the resources of a
community and an identity that helped me suss out my feelings on the matter.

![Tiny foxes: not very good for martinis](/assets/furry/trends-within-trends/ao-makyotini-2.png)

In this way, these trends act as attractors in a system: the closer one winds
up to them, the more likely one is to wind up a part of them. I think this
describes my journey into the furry subculture pretty accurately: by my
presence online, as well as my interests in general, I wound up close to the
community, and my proximity led to my eventual membership.

Along similar lines, the overlap between these sub-trends within larger groups
such as furry can help introduce one - and thus bring one closer to -
additional groups that one might not find otherwise. For instance, given my own
shared interest in exploring both gender and furry has led me to the various
ways in which the two interact, from the communities surrounding gender
transformation, mixed-gender characters, the gender gap within the fandom, and
so on, all of which I probably would not have found myself a part of were it
not for my previous interests and identities.

As I alluded to earlier, this is hardly a furry-only phenomenon. After all,
anything from the entirety of the human race down to the individual level can
be divided up into separate trends, likes and dislikes, senses of identity, and
so on. However, as I have mentioned countless times before, the fact that so
much of our interaction takes place online, or is shifted online after the fact
(as would be the case with convention reports and photos), we leave a vast
paper-trail. All one needs to do is take a peek at someone's profile on any
popular art site and see the groups they consider themselves a member of, the
ways in which they identify (my profile on Weasyl, for instance, has links to
my open source code repositories, which I think speaks to how exciting of a
person I am not).

It's worth taking a moment to step back and investigate the ways in which you
interact with others and identifying the trends that tie you together. Those
ties and the ways in which they interact are what makes furry so durable a
fabric.
