% vim: ft=tex
% part: participation mystique

So.  What is furry?

That's a surprisingly difficult question to answer.

If you ask any ten foxes or wolves on the street, you're likely to come
up with something like twenty or thirty definitions of what a furry is
or, failing that, what a furry is not.  Not only that, but those ten
canids will simply \textit{leap} at the opportunity to tell you about
it.  Perhaps a furry is simply one who is exceedingly willing to tell
you what a furry is.

But then I'm writing a book about it.

That aside, you are almost certain to receive a response containing the
word ``anthropomorphism''.  Anthropomorphism is, simply put, assigning
or attributing human characteristics to non-human entities. Coyote from
Native American lore is anthropomorphized in that he can talk and think
much as a man can.  Mickey Mouse is anthropomorphized in that he can
walk, talk, work, and dress in trousers with suspenders.  Garfield is
anthropomorphized in that he hates Mondays, despite the fact that he's a
cat, and could probably care less about whether it's a weekday or
weekend.

In very rare circumstances, you might catch the word ``zoomorphism'',
which works the other way around: assigning or attributing animal
characteristics to a human.  Loyal as a dog, content as a cat, having an
elephant's memory, and other such similes are just the surface of this,
when it comes to furry.

Samuel Conway, also known as Uncle Kage, suggests the following when
explaining furry to a non-furry you happen to meet on the street:

\begin{itemize}
  \item Lead in with ``cartoon animals''.  This primes the listener to
  think of something nice and innocent, like Bugs Bunny, and begins not
  only with a positive association, but with something familiar.
  \item Don't bring up ``anthropomorphism'' until you've got the
  listener's full attention.  This keeps you from leading in with a
  big word and concept that may not be familiar to your audience,
  potentially creating a barrier.
  \item Don't describe what furry is not.  If first impressions are what
  forms the opinion, if you lead with ``it's not about sex and it's
  definitely not about sex with animals!'', the listener will come away
  with a lasting impression of something decidedly different from what
  you intended.
\end{itemize}

I'm lucky: I get to be self-referential and use big words like
``anthropomorphism'' because you're reading a book, not meeting me on
the street.  While I do agree with some of Conway's points as mentioned
above for that scenario, there is so much more to this strange
subculture than saying ``cartoon animals'' will ever convey.

For this first section, we'll explore what makes a furry and why
defining the subculture \textit{is} as difficult as it is.

\chapter{Participation Mystique}

Despite the frequent use of the word, I am more of the opinion that furry
is a subculture than a fandom. Part of the problem with being a writer,
though, is not only do you have to keep readers interested while you
expound on only one topic, but you also have to combat the language as
it's engrained in the minds of your audience. I think that part of the
reason that I have such a hard time not referring to furry as ``the
[furry] fandom'' is that it's a phrase engrained within our subculture
due to its historical use. Perhaps at some point in time, furry
consisted mostly of a collection of fans, but as it grows, so do the
means by which its members connect with it. That's why I prefer
subculture as a word to describe furry: it's much more all-encompassing
and, in the end, perhaps a little more accurate in describing this
hodgepodge group.

When I was reading William Gibson's book Pattern Recognition, I was
introduced to the term \textit{participation mystique}, which comes from
early Jungian psychology, adapted from L\'{e}vy-Bruhl in order to
describe the means by which we, as people, can define a portion of
ourselves through membership in a community or association with an
object.  Put that way, it's easy to see the connection with furry.

Appropriate as that is, I don't think that I could entirely get away
with not using ``fandom'' to refer to furry.  While anthropomorphism has
figured large in most cultures, I think that what we call furry today
stems in large part from a combination of other fandoms, such as those
surrounding comic books, cartoons, and science fiction. This eventually
coalesced into a more coherent group, though still (and as yet) without
a central nexus.  It would be unfair of me to discount not only the
formative years of the fandom, but also a still-significant portion of
furry that relies on their association with some external product that
contains that kernel of anthropomorphism.

So much of not only my own childhood, but my early years within furry
had to do with the little fandoms that revolved around individual works
of fiction.  Disney's \textit{Robin Hood}, the \textit{Redwall} books by
Brian Jacques, and even less direct examples such as animal companions,
talking and otherwise, in Saturday morning cartoons or books such as
Garth Nix's \textit{Old Kingdom} series (embarrassing admission: when I
first got into the fandom, I tried to a comic of \textit{Sabriel}, the
first book in that series, with the characters being foxes -- lets just
say it's good I stuck with music and writing).

These sources are important to us because they give us an extant product
to latch onto, a body of work to study, expand upon, and dream up new
microcosms in the macrocosm of their world.  For the rare few who are
gifted enough to create the world itself, it can be a little (or very)
distressing, but the human mind is always adept at treating a fictional
world as a fractal, looking closer and finding -- or at least adding --
more detail.  It's doubly important, then, that furry `grew' up around
these sources, at least in part.  It allowed us to start with several
specific ideas, look deeper into them, and come out with something
general enough that a group of individuals from different interests
could come together and say ``this is us''.

Of course, this led to a new way of thinking about furry, especially
once its presence on the Internet began to grow. A new member could find
their way inside through some means other than an existing fandom.
Despite being a fan of all the classic furry books and films, none of
them really struck a nerve with me.  It was finding that others had
built something new from those roots that caught my attention.

I personally found furry through the website Yerf! %(http://yerf.com),
and a few other sites such as Side7 and Elfwood.  These sites grew in an
organic way out of the BBSes and forums that proliferated in the early
days of the 'net, and focused primarily on the art aspect of the fandom.
What hooked me wasn't so much the fact that they were animal people, so
much as that there was this community of individuals all creating visual
works of art that focused primarily on these animal people, some of
which were incredibly well done and beautiful.

With the disclaimer that this is what I'd call my own entry point into
the fandom, I feel that a good portion of those who call themselves
furry today follow much the same route: a general interest in the
concept of anthropomorphics not necessarily tied to one single source
beyond what the fandom has already produced.

I freely admit that this isn't a very intense association with furry.
For a little bit near when I was first getting involved, I did think of
myself as a fox (as my character was at the time), and would often spend
nights awake in bed, imagining myself confortable with my partner, each
of us our cute little fox selves.  I know that for some, this sort of
self-zoomorphism can become almost a whole-body species dysphoria,
extending from feeling as though one exhibits characteristics of their
animal character to feeling decidedly uncomfortable being a human.

Here I need to be careful and step aside for a moment to provide a
disclaimer.  Firstly, I know little about this sort of thing beyond my
own simple experiences.  I don't personally experience much in the way
of species dysphoria (oh, there are times when I'm disappointed in
humanity, but I think that's more part of the human condition), and
beyond that additional phase, I don't spend much time imagining myself
as anything other than human.

Additionally, this idea is treading closer to our sister subcultures of
therianthropy and the were (as in werewolf) culture.  These are both
very interesting groups that have flourished in their own way on the
Internet, but not really the topic at hand.  Both have their own set of
founding ideas and, at times, have come into conflict with the furry
subculture.

That said, this focus on the species as it pertains to the self is still
important.  While I may not dream of really being a fox or whatever
anymore, it's still important for many to wind up with a character that
they can identify with.  I don't much feel like a seagull, for instance,
so why would I make my character one?  There are some who revel in such
differences, but it seems that a lot of furries wind up up picking a
species that they identify with on some level beyond ``boy, it sure
would be goofy if I was a seagull!''

We certainly cannot leave out the spiritual aspects of furry, either.
While this, like most things, seems to go through waves of popularity,
it's never waned so much as to become insignificant as an aspect of the
fandom. This is a topic that certainly deserves its own section, so I'm
only going to touch on it a little here, but it is interesting to note.

As there have been anthropomorphic aspects of many cultures back through
time, it's easy to see these creating `fandoms' of their own. This is
its own gradient as well: some may latch onto the legends and play into
the roles set down for them, while others, seemingly unattached, will
admit that they enjoy the trickster aspect of their coyote-sona or the
cleverness inherent in being a fox-based-creature.

With something as loose-weaved as furry, it's difficult to imagine there
being anything more than the faintest borders around the subculture.
There are, though, and where there are borders, there's bound to be
someone aiming to push them.  Beyond simply the species available here
on Earth, many are more content to explore the bounds created in
science-fiction and fantasy universes.  Wookiees and Kzinti are to be
found alongside the more terran of animals, not to mention those species
found in fan-based literature such as Skiltaire and Chakats.

Beyond even the constructed species of these fictional words lies the
only vaguely-defined realm of post-furry, a sub-sub-culture of sorts
with the goal of pushing the limits of anthropomorphics beyond the
``pure'' combination of animal and human characteristics.  While this
may lead to some rather borderline or intentionally humorous character
creations, the postmodernist viewpoint that seems to influence the
post-furry attitude serves well with its looser sense of reality.

All of these describe different aspects of the participation mystique
involved in being a furry.  The way furries associate portions of their
own selves with this abstract noun that is ``furry''.  They identify
with the fandom in all their myriad ways, and by virtue of their
identities, form the fandom in itself.  The question has come up several
times about what exactly makes a furry.  That's one of those questions
that's decidedly difficult to answer in a way that's satisfactory to
all.  Perhaps the best definition to be found is that a furry is someone
who claims to be a furry.  There are probably some who fall outside this
definition that others would consider as members of the subculture, but
it's part of our mystical participation that it be consensual --- one
cannot be forced to identify with something.  I suppose in that sense,
`furry' winds up being more of an adjective than a noun, though the word
as an adjective already caries too strong a meaning to be overloaded
like that.

That there is a phrase for identifying with a group such as this is
evidence that this is not a unique phenomenon.  In the context of the
aforementioned Gibson book, it was used in much the same way: describing
the fascination and partial identity with a fan base for a specific
creation (in the book's case, bits of film slowly appearing on the
Internet, and in furry's, anthropomorphics), but the same idea lends
itself to other memberships that form portions of identities in
individuals.  A good example would be one's political or religious
affiliation, which, for some people shapes a good portion of their
lives.  To state another example, since we've covered the ``belief'' and
``fan'' ends of the spectrum, many members of the LGBT community also
base their identities on their membership, adopting styles, modes of
speech, and mannerisms from what they believe is the norm for such an
identity.  Of course, this perpetuates its own existence, but such is
the way of feedback.

Given these examples, it's tempting to ask what modes and mannerisms
within the fandom are perpetuated by identity with it.  There is
certainly a good amount of lingo that comes along with our membership,
such as the word ``fandom'' itself.  Beyond that, though, there are
certain things that do go along with our culture, at least in the case
of conventions: certain styles, stances, and actions can identify the
furry from the non-furry.  It might be wrong to call it a price, but
membership with the subculture does seem to come with its expectations.
One is no longer necessarily obligated to be familiar with
\textit{Watership Down} or \textit{Rescue Rangers} (though, at the time
of writing, one should apparently be familiar with the exceedingly
popular musical genre of Dubstep), for instance.  The criteria for
participation remain loose enough for us to be a fairly accepting
fandom, and it could probably be argued that they have loosened over
time, but there are still some lines, however faint and tested by the
post-fur crowd (to name only one example) which identify the members as
furries.

Participation mystiqe --- mystical participation --- is perhaps one of
the best phrases I've found to be used to define the fandom.  It's not
something one can or even should whip out when trying to explain the
subculture of furry to non-members.  The concept of basing part of our
existence off something non-spatiotemporal makes it all sound a bit like
a strange religion, especially when put that way.  However, with all the
different levels of identifying with animal avatars represented, plus
the consensual aspect of self-identification, I feel we've just about
got the bases covered: a connection with our characters, no matter the
source, and our participation forming a portion of our identity as the
crazy animal-people we are.

\secdivider

It is apparently a rite of passage for every website, blog, and
individual to take a crack at defining furry.  It's one of those things
that means something entirely different to each person involved, yet
everyone seems to come to enough of a consensus for there to even be a
thing named furry.

However, just as everyone has to take time to explain what they think
furry is, everyone else has to explain to them why they're wrong.  It's
clearly a tetchy subject, and it's worth taking a moment here to step
aside and define our terms before we continue to explore issues around
the fandom.

``Furry'' is an overloaded term.  One of the most descriptive
definitions of ``overloading,'' as I understand it, comes from the realm
of computer science.  When one overloads an operator, that means that
one is changing the way an operator works within a certainc lass of
items.  That is, the `+' operator, given two numbers, will add them
together, but given two strings, will turn them into one string by
concatenating them.  It still retains its essential ``plus-ness'' as
it's construed in the English language, but subtle differences are made
to accommodate its context.  If you use `+' with 4 and 3, you would
expect 7, not 43; the operator takes into account the context in which
it is used.

Similarly, when one is dealing with structured data, one can overload a
reference to a piece of that data.  `ID' can refer to a student ID, an
ID card, an identifying number, or Idaho.  We know which one to pick
given the context in which `ID' appears.

I like this metaphor when it comes to overloading words in language.  In
particular, I feel that the concept of an overloaded term intended to
mean multiple related yet distinct things is particularly applicable
given our propensity toward using flexible languages.  That, after all,
is why we have metaphors, similes, and poetry at our disposal.

This is part of the reason defining furry is so complicated.  Furry can
mean something that has fur, of course.  It can also refer to an
individual who is a member of the furry fandom.  Ask just about any
furry, however, and they will hardly mention the fandom or subculture at
all.  ``Furry,'' they will say, ``Is all about an interest in
anthropomorphics.''  Furry is a label that furries will apply to
anything that has to do with anthropomorphic concepts, period, which
broadens the definition considerably.  

In fact, this label will be
applied not only to things that are intended to be taken under the
umbrella term, but even to things that the creator \textit{strenuously}
objects to being called ``furry''.  Steven R. Boyett wrote a book in
1986 named \textit{The Architect of Sleep}, a novel which features the
concept of a parallel universe wherein raccoons, rather than primates,
evolved to primacy.  The book ended in a cliff-hanger, yet when Boyett
learned that furries had latched onto his work as a part of their own
subculture, he lashed out with vitriolic remarks and refused to write
the implied sequel.

It's obviously important, then, that we know exactly of what we speak.
I know that some will very much disagree with me on the definitions as
they themselves apply them, but we have to set a groundwork for the
words that will be used here, even though there will be a glossary of
terms provided at the end:

\begin{description}
  \item[anthropomorphic] \hfill \\
  In its various forms, ``anthropomorphic''is used to refer to anything
  that is given human traits.  Specific to our purposes, however, this
  will usually refer to animals, either of Earth or of some fictional
  planet.  The human traits can be anything from a regular animal that
  can speak to a human with a few animal features, such as cat ears.
  However, it should be noted that in some instances, a more proper
  would be ``zoomorphic''.
  \item[zoomorphic] \hfill \\
  Zoomorphic refers to something that has animal characteristics.  For
  our purposes, this probably refers to humans.
  \item[furry \textit{(n.)}] \hfill \\
  \begin{enumerate}
    \item A member of the furry fandom.  Sometimes called a ``fur''.  If
    you really look back in the past (say, ten years ago), you may find 
    ``furre'' as well.
    \item An anthropomorphic critter or zoomorphic person in fiction or
    art.
  \end{enumerate}
  \item[furry \textit{(adj.)}] \hfill \\
  Of or pertaining to the furry fandom
  \item[furry fandom \textit{or} furry subculture] \hfill \\
  A loosely organized, decentralized group of individuals held together
  primarily by their interest in anthropomorphic art and concepts and by
  their self identification as members of the furry fandom.
\end{description}

For our purposes, we will restrict our definitions to these in order to
constrain our focus to the sociological phenomenon that is the furry
fandom, rather than the history of anthropomorphic art and concepts
throughout the past.  The latter subject is a very large one and hardly
appropriate for a layman to go on about at any length, given the amount
of writing already existing on it.  

One additional point that should be added to the definition of ``furries
are those who call themselves furries'' is the idea of content.  While
I'll get into the idea of social currency later, it's necessary to note
that furries  are particularly interested in creating or enjoying
content - be it visual, written, or participatory art - that has to do
with anthropomorphics.  This, perhaps more than any other aspect, is
what blurs the definition of the fandom.  Whether or not it was intended
to be furry art specifically, art may be considered furry art if it's
enjoyed by furry.  This is the source of the strife with Boyett's book,
and part of the reason for the confusion in definitions.

% conclude

\chapter{Doxa}

There were many sources of inspiriation for writing this.  Not simply
sources of furry information, or of stuff that might make it into the
book, but sources that provided inspiration for the structure and for
some of the ideas that show up here.  Jon Krakauer's investigative
non-fiction work \textit{Under the Banner of Heaven}, for instance, is
one of the first books that got me reading that genre of writing.  Dale
Pendell's \textit{Pharmako Trilogy} helped solidify that, but also added
in the more active role of the author that I've started to prefer in my
own writing; when working with a subject that is an important part of
the author's life, it's difficult to leave the author out of it, so it's
probably best to include them within the work itself.

More pertinently, though, it was Hanne Blank's work \textit{Straight: A
Surprisingly Short History of Heterosexuality}, that introduced me to
the concept of \textit{doxa}.

Doxa, from the Greek meaning ``popular belief'', has come to mean
something very specific in sociology today.  Doxa is everything that
goes without saying in a society.  In Blank's book, she uses it to
describe the fact that, for the majority of our western society, it goes
without saying that heterosexuality is the norm, that homosexuality has
to do with two people in a binary gender system engaging in sexual
activity or feeling romantically attracted to each other, when, on close
inspection, neither sexuality nor gender are quite so simple.  This is
part of our doxa, part of what we just assume is the case via popular
belief.  It is rarely taught explicitly, and in fact rarely ever
mentioned out loud because it is so common a belief.

This concept shows itself primarily in language and communication,
though it's also visible in many of the social structures of the
society.  One of the most common linguistic elements surrounding doxa,
Blank asserts, is markedness, or marked categories.  That is, two or
more
categories related by a rule and an exception, or a general category and
a specific category.  For a pertinent example, one might consider the
unmarked term ``marriage'' and the marked term ``gay marriage''. Or perhaps
in the language of media, this could be ``advertisements'' and ``girls'
advertisements'', which in Chandler's ``Semiotics for Beginners''  is
marked by ``significantly longer shots, significantly more dissolves
(fade out/fade in of shot over shot), less long shots and more
close-ups, less low shots, more level shots and less overhead shots''.

All of this, of course, got me wondering about what sort of doxa and
marked categories exist within the fandom.  Culture as whole has the
givens and the goes-without-sayings, and individual subcultures, as
parts of that whole, are just as susceptible to their own specific doxa.
There are, for example, stages of growth of an individual
within western gay popular culture, and those, in their own way, are a
sort of doxa, if it goes without saying that younger members of that
culture go through their phases of discovery.

One of the big problems with discerning doxa amid that noisy channel of
communication that is language and media is difficult, and it is most
often found when it is challenged, such as when one notices a marked
category.  After all, doxa is not a static thing: it changes and grows
or fades as the society around it advances or declines.  Here are just
a scant few examples noticed within the fandom that could be called
doxa, though as they're all either currently being challenged or have
already been challenged, they may sound a little dated to furry ears..  To be sure,
finding any sort of doxa that is currently well-entrenched is nearly
impossible --- it's difficult to ask oneself what one takes for granted,
after all.

\begin{description}
  \item[Everyone has a personal character] --- Perhaps a decade ago, in
    about 2000, it seemed as
    though the first thing you did was choose a species and attributes
    that fit your personality and did your level best to let that
    character become you.  Everyone had a character that fit them
    well and only a few had alts, which were mainly used to
    either sneak around or separate adult aspects of their interactions
    from more general aspects.  However, over time, many
    individuals started to create different
    characters or at least different morphs to correspond to different
    aspects of their personality.  It wasn't so much that one was just a
    foxman anymore; one was a foxman when chatting with friends, a
    foxgirl when questioning one's gender identity, a wolverineman to
    roleplay stronger emotions, and so on.

    While this was likely the case in those earlier years and just not
    as visible, it appears that things have become more clearly separated now as
    we get into such things as character auctions and ``adoptables'',
    where one creating a character no longer has much to do with the
    personal aspect of having a character.  Now that the doxa of having
    a personal character is being challenged, you see more and more
    people on FA having journals listing their many characters, only a
    few of which they may have a personal connection with beyond simply
    ``this is mine''.
  \item[Furry is dramatic] --- A meme will often move in a certain arc shape that has
    become familiar.  There is a larger meme of drama
    within the fandom, but even that one can be seen to be moving in
    certain ways.  Whereas before it was considered implicit that
    furries were going to be dramatic people, now it is something that
    we hang lampshades on nearly constantly and it
    seems that a lot of that default-to-drama attitude is starting to
    fade away.  Just like all of the smaller bits of strife within the
    larger world of drama, the drama itself is starting to move in that
    same arc.  It is a doxa that is being challenged by the very fact
    that we're so willing to point it out and name it.
  \item[Furry is unpopular or uncool] --- Kathleen Gerbasi, referencing
    a Vanity Fair article on the fandom, mentions, ``The furry stereotype
    promoted by [the article's author] indicated that furries were
    predominantly male, liked cartoons as children, enjoyed science
    fiction, were homosexual, wore glasses and had beards (male furries
    only), were employed as scientists or in computer-related fields,
    and their most common totem animals were wolves and foxes'', which
    does seem to fit in nicely with our own exploration of what might be
    the default furry in the fandom.  Needless to say, it doesn't paint
    the picture of what one might call a cool or popular guy.

    However, as the fandom has grown and changed, it has entered into a
    marketing feedback loop: the more furs there are out there with
    purchasing power, the more money is to be made on them by creating
    products to suit their tastes, which in turn, helps to broaden the
    audience of furries out there.  At some point, it became cool and
    hip to adopt some items that could be seen as related to our fandom,
    if not necessarily to be furry oneself.  Spirit hoods, tails, and
    kigurumi pajamas are some examples of how this doxa has been
    challenged even from outside the fandom itself.
\end{description}

As a more ingrained example of doxa, let's look at a few defining
factors in the creation of one's character within the fandom.  While
we'll get more into character creation and avatars in a later part, it
might be useful to see that several pieces of the idea of what would be a
standard character do indeed stem more from doxa than anything else.

With any society come a whole heap of internal stereotypes. With
programmers, there are the hierarchical nerds who strive for alpha
status, the quiet smart people who do cool things, the loud smart people
who also do cool things, the designers, architects, and engineers. In
music, things generally follow the lines of instrument or voice part,
but there are some ideas that cross boundaries, such as the dramatic
opera singer, the crazy instrumentalist, or the lazy genius. One could,
perhaps, measure the strength of a subculture by counting the amount of
inside jokes contained within it. Furry is far from immune to this, and
there are several recurring threads.

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.7]{assets/species-breakdown}
\end{center}

One definite theme within the fandom is that, to quote
%http://rikoshi.gd-kun.net/furry.html
an old page, "The Animal Kindgom is full of a plethora of amazing and
interesting species, and so you'll probably be a Fox or a Wolf". Canids
seem to far outstrip other species as far as representation within the
fandom. An 
%http://forums.furaffinity.net/threads/61671-Furs-By-Species-2
informal poll shows them making up nearly a third of all respondents. There are even
stereotypes that go along with each species (though these have,
admittedly, weakened over time), such as that "foxes beg for it, while
huskies are just targets".

\textit{Default fur so far: a wolf.}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.5]{assets/age}
\end{center}

Age also plays an important factor in the fandom. It could be that
something about furry speaks to those just coming of age, or that the
liberal nature of the subculture fits in well with the general liberal
nature of youth; the oft miss-attributed quip "if you're not a liberal
by 20, you have no heart..." seeming appropriate. With its widely
espoused (and practiced, though perhaps to a lesser extent) values of
acceptance and tolerance, it's not really much of a surprise that a
good portion of furry falls into the 18-25 age group. I was pretty
firmly entrenched within the fandom, myself, by sixteen or so, and here
I am, twenty-five, and writing a slightly satirical blog about furry -
which I still love plenty, mind!

\textit{Default fur so far: a 22 year old wolf.}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.7]{assets/sex-gender}
\end{center}

Geekdom, particularly computer geekdom, has almost always been dominated
by males. The reasons for this are many and complex, but it seems to be
a nearly universal truth that the technologically literate castes for
the last several hundred years have been made up primarily of men.
Furry, which is made up in good part by communications taking place on
the Internet, can no more escape that than it can escape certain
episodes of certain television shows or, if you've been around for a
while, certain articles from certain magazines. Gender in furry is a
complicated enough issue to warrant several of its own posts, but for
now, let's call it decidedly male.

\textit{Default fur so far: a 22 year old male wolf.}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.5]{assets/orientation}
\end{center}

Now is when things start to get hairy, if you'll forgive the pun. 
The stereotypes still
exist, but have less basis in reality. Perhaps it would be better to
say that the basis is less readily apparent, though. Take sexual
orientation: if one were to go by the way people act, the art that's
posted, and the relationships formed online, one could pretty easily
leap to the conclusion that the standard fur is a gay male. However,
this doesn't quite appear to be the case. Rather than showing up as predominately
homosexual, respondents seem to be fairly evenly divided among different
quanta of sexual orientation. With the decidedly affirming nature of
our little subculture, it's easy to see how this could lead, first of
all, to the even distribution of orientations, and second of all, the
more visible and vocal nature of the more homosexual portions of the
population. It could possibly be construed that society as a whole is
likely divided up fairly evenly along Kinsey's scale, but that, due to
social, evolutionary, and personal prejudices, we're left with a more
uneven seeming distribution. Even so\ldots

\textit{Default fur so far: a 22 year old gay male wolf.}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.7]{assets/sex-importance}
\end{center}

The waters get even muddier as we move on, and even the stereotype gets
harder to pin down. Furries have a reputation of being highly sexual
people. More so than their reputation from the outside, however,
furries pretty strongly believe that their subculture is full of highly
sexual people. Things get weird here, especially, because most
respondents don't consider themselves to be very sexual people.
Stranger still, most respondents believe that the majority of the
general public views them as highly sexual. This is certainly a tough
metric to judge, and it would be hard to rank the fandom amongst other
subcultures when it comes to sexuality, but it appears that furries, by
and large, assume that furries are pretty oversexed.

\textit{Default fur so far: a 22 year old gay male wolf looking to get
laid.}

And now we're getting into some pretty speculative territory. From
within, it seems that most of the fandom is made up of socially awkward
people who care very strongly about one thing, which is likely to be
computers or games - that is, nerds. Nerds that drink.  eeks that
party. People who don't communicate effectively with each other, but
never stop trying. I have no graph to go along with this; it's partly
based on introspection into my own outlook and partly from listening to
others when they talk about the fandom. I would have left this out due
to it being so hard to pin down, but considering how large it figures in
all of the satires of the fandom, I'm not sure I could justify that.

\textit{Default fur: a tipsy, awkward, 22 year old gay male wolf looking
to get laid. Cute, huh?}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{assets/randomwolf-raw}

\textit{RandomWolf}\footnote{Art by Floe, used as part of the
[adjective][species] banner}
\end{center}

So, given our wolf guy here, what's right and what's wrong? Sure, he'll
fit in pretty well, he's certainly welcome within the fandom, but what,
in his construction, is just due to demographics and what's due to
stereotypes? Judging by the few datasets we have, our RandomWolf here
is probably a young adult male wolf due simply to the make up of furry
itself. Given any one member of the group, and that member is likely to
be a male canid somewhere in his early twenties. As for the awkward,
gay, and oversexed parts, though, these aspects of our fictional
character are more likely stereotypes than anything (however attractive
or not you may find them).

Just like any group, our nutty little fandom has its fair share of
preconceptions, misconceptions, and stereotypes. We've got our in jokes
and our quips (I've heard ``by and large, furries are bi and large''
enough to turn the study of it into this article, after all), and we've
got our reactions to those. As a group, we're introspective enough to
recognize trends and turn them into stereotypes. The visualization on
sexuality in the fandom is most telling: there's the way we perceive
ourselves, the way we perceive our fellows, and the way we imagine the
world perceives us - they may not always align, but that's just the warp
and woof of subcultures, and I think just adds to the fun.

It's important to note, here that there is a blurry line between doxa
and opinion.  One can hold an opinion as a belief and even believe in it
quite strongly, but doxa are things that we implicitly believe are true
about the society in which we're embedded, things that we take as fact.
The reason that the line is blurry is that, not only is it sometimes
difficult to disentangle opinion from perceived fact, but that as doxa
shifts and changes over time, it can veer closer or farther way from
opinion.

Watching the shift and change of what we take as given within the fandom
is a good way to watch the way our subculture grows and changes, itself.
As we watch these ideas shift from doxa to a division between orthodoxy
and heterodoxy --- that which is accepted as normal, and that which is
seen as going against the norm --- to an accepted variety, we can see the
way that new members influence the fandom and how external factors can
change our social interaction.  The perceived sexualization of furry and
the consequent backlash from both older and newer members can be seen as
part of this, for example, and there are even visible artifacts such as
the numerous ``not yiffy'' and ``no RP'' groups on FA being tagged on
artists' and watchers' profiles alike.  That is just one example,
however, of a shorter change that has shown how the fandom is shifting
along with its members' participation.

So is doxa good or bad?  That's a tough question to answer.  Doxa may be
one of those things that ``just is''.  It's an artifact of the way we work
as individuals as well as the way our societies are built.  Certainly,
some doxa cause harm to individuals and minorities, and even within
those minorities, sub-doxa of a sort can cause additional problems in
the form of backlash, but commonly held beliefs and ideas are part of
the glue that holds us together in cultures.  Even within our own
fandom, there are several currents and ideas that form the shifting
background of whatever furry is.  Equally difficult to ask, then, is
what is the next doxa?  What new ideas will we find out we are taking
for granted when they're challenged?  What commonly held beliefs will
lead to contention in the future of our small group of animal-people?
While it is difficult to look within ourselves and figure these things
out now beyond searching for marked categories, it certainly bears
exploration once they come to light.

\chapter{Meaning within a subculture}

This is an idea that has been tumbling around in my head ever since I
started this site. In fact, I suppose you could call a lot of my earlier
posts a sort of fumbling around as I tried to articulate this idea. The
idea that I'm talking about is the concept of what furry \textit{is}.
That is, not only what a makes a furry a furry, but how is furry a
thing, and where did we all come from. A lot of the articles on this
site have come at this idea from different angles, but usually focusing
on a single aspect or in a stream-of-consciousness manner.

When I write posts for \adsp, I do so in what's called the ``watercolor
strategy'', as named by Daniel Chandler in \textit{The Act of Writing}.
That is, for the most part, I start at the beginning, and when I get to
the end, I stop. It's a strategy that, to my mind, would work almost
solely for the introspective writer, one who internalizes a subject,
then blasts it out on to paper (or screen). The idea is that one works
as one does with watercolor, where there is no real way to correct a
mistake or change what one has done --- one must simply start at the
beginning and continue until one feels that the work is done, then stop.
There is no editing along the way, as there would be in the ``oil
painting strategy''; with oils, one has the ability to paint over the
paint already in place without worrying about muddying the painting or
ruining the paper. As Chandler quotes in the section on the watercolor
strategy, ``rewrite in process \ldots interferes with flow and rhythm, which
can only come from a kind of unconscious association with the material''
(Plimpton, 1989, quoted in Chandler)\cite{chandlerWriting}.

In a lot of posts, this has worked well. I think that I often work in
short enough sections that I can hold most of the article in my head
with only the barest of sketches taken down mostly as reminders to what
I had already planned rather than a true outline (which would be the
``architectural'' or ``bricklaying'' strategies).

My process has occasionally come back to haunt me in that I've
incompletely captured an idea. It happened very early on when I wrote
about the default furry, which eventually turned into the post about
doxa: what I was
trying to name in the ``default furry'' post wasn't so much trends in
character creation as the fact that there is a factual basis for much of
what we take for granted within the fandom.

One of the big things that keeps me coming back to these subjects is the
standard artist's complaint that I'm never really satisfied with the
product. I can barely even call myself an artist, here --- so much of what
I've done with \adsp is rehashing ideas I've heard of or learned about
in a non-furry context within the context of furry, and this piece here
is no exception. Rather, I'm one with artistic habits.

I was unhappy with both of my posts on ``participation mystique''. It's
such a wonderful concept and fits so perfectly with the contiguous
fandom that I couldn't get it out of my head. All the same, I couldn't
seem to get down exactly what I wanted to with it. The first post turned
into an idea of how members identify with the fandom, which is close to,
but not exactly participation mystique. The second post veered off
course and into (still related) waters of the definition of our
subculture.

That those posts feel as though they inadequately captured what I wanted
to grates on me, so I feel that, as the person best in a position to
correct my mistakes, I probably ought to. In order to do that, however,
I'm going to have to start with a little bit of background that I've
picked up over the last few weeks of study and years of background on
the subject even if it isn't immediately applicable to this furry site,
and I'm going to have to abandon the watercolor strategy and at least
work toward the architectural strategy. It may be a bit of a long
travel, and I'm sorry if I wind up coming off as boring, but I believe
that a lot of these ideas are pertinent to figuring out what is going on
with the fandom, and why the concept of membership is important. If
nothing else, I find the concepts very interesting, and I think that
many others will as well.

\secdivider

\section{A Linguistic Introduction}

I'd like to begin here with a basic introduction on some of the
linguistics that are involved in exploring meaning in the fandom.
There's a very important reason for this which I'll go into more depth
on later, but for now, it will suffice to say that language is important
to us because our fandom is wrapped up in it. We describe our
characters, we write stories about furries, and, above all, we
communicate; we are a social fandom. Language is always important to
subcultures such as ours which subsist on social interaction.

There is an argument to be made that language, rather than being a
defined entity, is simply a collection of idiolects. Dialect is a
commonly known word, of course, but language can be broken down further
to the speech patterns used by an individual. Each person's pattern of
language use is unique to them, just as their handwriting and
fingerprints are unique. This is their idiolect. The argument here is
that, despite prevailing attitudes within the United States and
elsewhere, a language is made up of its mutually comprehensible
dialects, which are spoken by individuals with all of their unique
idiolects.

I bring this up not only because it's fascinating (to me, at least), but
because there is another step in there that's missing between idiolect
and dialect, and that is the sociolect. A sociolect is the subset of a
language that is shared among a social group. While this may have
started with the difference between the language spoken by different
social classes, with the growth of the middle class, particularly of
skilled workers, the number of recognized sociolects has grown. My
partner, a machinist by trade, is able to share this language within the
social group of other machinists. When they go on about ``thou'',
``scrap'',
``tombstones'', ``jobshops,'' and ``print-to-part,'' they can understand each
other within the context of their social group.

Similarly, the fandom has started to pull together its own sociolect
formed of the collected idiolects of its members. That we have our own
``jargon'' with words like ``fursona'', ``hybrid'', and ``taur''[2] that goes
along with our membership to this nebulous group helps to define the
fact that we have become a more well-defined subculture, or, to put it
better, a community. A community, in this sense, is a coherent group
composed of multiple actors, and that is just what we are within the
fandom: we act within and upon it, both taking from and adding to it by
way of our membership. It works to say it either way: our sociolect is a
combination of our idiolects because we are a community composed of
members, and we are a community composed of members because we have our
sociolect as a combination of our idiolects --- our ways of communicating
made up of those who communicate with each other.

\includegraphics[scale=0.4]{assets/language-hierarchy.png}

Put this way, we can come up with a sort of hierarchy of language. A
language is comprised of dialects and sociolects, subsets of the overall
language based around social, economic, or geopolitical groups. The
dialects and sociolects, in turn, are made up of the individial
idiolects of their members. There, of course, some mixing due to new
speakers of the language and borrowed terms, but also due to the fact
that individuals often belong to more than one social group, and thus
may take part in more than one sociolect or dialect --- my partner is a
machinist, but he is also a furry, for instance. A good example might be
the apparent dichotomy between ``realistic'' and ``toony'' furry art,
perhaps due to the overlap between the furry subculture and the art
world (whereas ``realism'' isn't something I hear much at my own job as a
programmer).

Much of this focus on our means of communication ties into the Internet
and the prominence of its role within the fandom. There's really no
doubting that a good portion of the fandom ``grew up'' on the net. The
ways in which it facilitates communication between individuals or groups
regardless of geographic location fits in so well with a fandom that
bases so much of its existence around social interaction. There are a
few terms that become important due to this fact, namely ``text'',
``corpus'', ``medium'', and ``modality''. A ``text'' is a unit of communication,
whether it's a journal post, an image and all of its associated
discussion, such as comments, or a web page like this. A ``corpus'' is a
collection of related texts --- this post would be a text, but
\adjsp would be a corpus --- though it can be taken in
broader terms, such as the collection of all different texts on
FurAffinity --- images, journals, comments, user pages --- or simply the
collection of all texts within our subculture: the furry corpus, if you
will.

``Medium'' and ``modality'' are similarly intertwined. The ``medium'' is,
obviously enough, the way in which a text reaches us, and the
``modality''
is what the text is constructed of. For instance, words and language
would be the modality, whereas that can be divided into written words
read off a screen on a web page, or spoken words shared among a group of
friends at a convention. The reason I'm bringing up these terms is that,
taken together, they form our social interaction within the fandom, and
the reason that it's \textit{important} is because, in particular, our choices
of media and corpi are language in and of themselves: that is, that we
rely on the Internet for so much of our communication, whether out of
necessity or desire, and allow the idiolects that we've formed on the
'net to creep into our verbal communications with each other is
something of a statement in and of itself.

Put another way, our medium is important because it involves the
concepts of human-computer interaction (HCI) and computer (or, more
specifically, Internet) mediated communication (IMC). The first, HCI, is
important because computers are not free-form entities through which we
may communicate however we want. Instead, we communicate through the
specific media of SecondLife, through comments on submissions on FA,
through MUCKs, MUDs, IRC, and IMs. The actual means of interaction
within each is different from each other, and certainly different than
other media. For instance, posing actions, and thus role-playing, are
quite simple on MU*s and IRC, and thus more common, whereas the same is
not true of instant messages and the less-immediate form of comment
threads and forums. The latter concept of IMC becomes particularly
evident in SecondLife, where the action taken by your character on the
screen is distanced from reality by necessity. Shooting a gun, turning a
cartwheel, or doing a dance are all usually thought of physical
activities offline, but on SecondLife, they are all the result of
commands typed in by the user or accessed via the mouse on a head up
display.

It's an easy thing to say that communication is the basis of our
subculture, but more difficult to express it in terms of the source and
result of a sociolect comprised of the colliding idiolects of its
members. While that is far from the only thing that furry has going for
it, it's a definite signifier of our being a society in our own right,
and one of the easiest to perceive, once one takes a step back. We have
settled our concentration certain media for a variety of reasons - the
ease of constructing an avatar on the Internet, the mediated sharing of
texts through different websites and services, and the 'net's way of
connecting individuals across distance. Our choice of media is a form of
communication in a way, though not simply due to the benefits to be
gained from it. There is more, though, to be sure.

\secdivider

\section{On Semiotics}

When I first heard about the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis, I rejected it
immediately. It states, in brief, that the way we conceive of the world
around us, the way we assign meaning to things, is shaped entirely by
the language that we use to describe that meaning. I think that part of
the reason that I had such a negative reaction to the idea right off the
bat was that I learned about the hypothesis via the constructed language
lojban. The idea behind lojban (always written with a lower-case `l') is
that, if the way we think is shaped by the language we use, than a
language that is totally and completely ``logical'' ought to help one to
think totally and completely logically.

That idea really grated on me for a few reasons. First of all, I was in
a Madrigal choir at the time, and while the Madrigal came from the
Renaissance period, much of the words to the songs spend time evoking
romantic imagery. That, and much of the songs we performed weren't
exactly Madrigals in their own right, but composed later in the Romantic
or Neo-romantic eras. Put simply, I was a teenager inundated in
romanticism --- the concept of being able to explain everything only with
logical terms and without the metaphor inherent in romanticism didn't
jive with me. Additionally, having been brought up by two atheist
parents, I was going through my own spiritual renaissance at the time,
and so I was always finding these neat, non-spatiotemporal, sometimes
ineffable ideas around myself, whether it be religion or something more
new-agey.

I was a non-Whorfian, basically. I believed, at the time, that we fit
words entirely to the meanings that exist independently of those words.
There is certainly an argument to be made for that, as well. We all, in
one way or another, are able to perceive what a ``tree'' is. There's a way
for us to scientifically define it, and there isn't necessarily a way
for us to claim that a tree is only a tree because we have all conceived
of the language for defining what a tree is.

I'm no longer fifteen, though, and things have changed. I have had my
own experience with the way that meaning comes to us through language or
signs of some sort, not least of all with my attempts at such things
with these articles. I think that I might now call myself a believer in
Moderate Whorfianism. In his book \textit{The Act of Writing}, Daniel
Chandler explains that many linguists would find extreme Whorfianism
hard to swallow, but may accept a weak version of it as defined in the
following way:

\begin{itemize}
  \item the emphasis is on the potential for thinking to be `influenced'
  rather than unavoidably `determined' by language;
  \item it is a two-way process, so that `the kind of language we use' is
  also influenced by `the way we see the world'
  \item any influence is ascribed not to `Language' as such or to one
  language as compared with another, but to the use \textit{within a
  language} of one variety rather than another (typically a
  \textit{sociolect} --- the language used primarily by members of a
  particular social group)
  \item emphasis is given to the social context of language use rather
  than to purely linguistic considerations, such as the social pressure in
  particular contexts to use language in one way rather than another.[1]
\end{itemize}

This leads us to the next topic of discussion: semiotics. There is
argument as to whether or not linguistics is a subset of semiotics, or
vice versa. Whereas linguistics aims to tackle the use and meaning of
language, semiotics aims to tackle the use and language of meaning. They
are certainly closely related --- given that language, written language
specifically, but also speech, provides a measurable, non-objective
metric to study, much of semiotics deals with the use of words within a
certain context to either ascribe or convey meaning, as well as the
additional meaning conveyed via word choice.

Beyond that, however, semiotics also takes into account such things as
the medium and modality of communication, regardless of whether it has
to do with words. Semiotics is just as comfortable looking at body
language and posture, meaning conveyed through the layout of a web page,
or even additional meanings conveyed through art, which most definitely
has something to with our own subculture. That is, rather than focusing
on language itself, semiotics focuses on the meanings conveyed between
actors within a community. It is not that linguistics has nothing to do
with meaning, nor that it doesn't take the social context into account,
simply that that focusing specifically on those areas is the realm of
semiotics, instead.

The process of ascribing meaning to a sign --- be it a word, a gesture,
music, or some aspect of a piece of visual art --- is known as semiosis.
Semiosis isn't something that happens on it's own, we don't ascribe
meaning to the word ``tree'' without having some framework in which to
ascribe that meaning. Signs are parts in the whole of sign systems or
``codes''. A code could be a language, but using that word in particular
is a poor choice, because language always takes place within some
context and carries additional signifiers along with it. ``Tree'' said
calmly, for instance, carries different connotations than ``TREE!''
shouted fearfully. Even in a text-only environment such as this, the
punctuation and capitalization are signs in and of themselves. All of
this is taking place within a cultural context, as well. With language
in particular, the sign (a word) is a portion of a code that is shared
among actors in a community, whether it's the community of
English-speakers (a language) or the community of people interested in
anthropomorphics interacting online (the sociolect of furries on the
Internet).

This all goes to show that semiotics goes beyond the individual. The
webcomic xkcd recently performed quite a feat[3] by displaying a
different comic to different viewers. The comic that was chosen depended
not only on the viewer's choice of browser, but also on their location
and even the size of their browser window. The title of the comic was
``Umwelt'', which is the collection of sign-relations (briefly, the pair
of sign-meaning, or the triad of sign-interpretant-meaning) that make up
one's perception of the world. We cannot help to do anything outside our
umwelt, other than to assimilate new meanings into it through semiosis.

We aren't nearly so solipsistic, though, and so every time our umwelt
collides with another through interpersonal relationships, we influence
each other. When umwelten group together naturally through an attractor
such as a mutual interest, we wind up with a semiotic niche. That is,
when a social group forms, a sociolect can form with them due to the way
the group steers semiosis, the way it finds meaning.

These semiotic niches work much the same way as umwelten, in that they
can converge and share boundaries --- they all, after all, take part in
the world of meaning around them, known as the semiosphere. That is,
something like furry will share its meaning not only with Internet
culture, but also western culture, anime culture to some extent, and, as
a whole, belongs to this whole perceived world around us. Beyond the
semiosphere, ``language not only does not function, it does not
exist.''[4] Without some framework for meaning, be it words, visual art,
music, or anything, there is only formless thought.

\includegraphics[scale=0.4]{assets/semiotic-hierarchy.png}

If we were to modify our language hierarchy to be about semiotics
(helpfully done in advance), it would look something like this, then.
Similar to the idea that languages are made up of sociolects and
dialects, which are in turn made up of idiolects, so too is the
semiosphere made up of semiotic niches, which are in turn made up of the
umwelten of individual members, the combined basis for creating meaning
in the world around us. This is, of course, a necessary gloss over the
field of semiotics, which is quite large. The goal of this article isn't
to go into commutation tests and syntactic analysis of furry works,
though, just to provide a groundwork of the concepts of language and
semiotics in the fandom.

It is within this construct of signs and meaning that we not only form
our ideas of what means ``tree'', what an image of a tree is and what it
represents, but what abstract concepts such as our subculture are and
what they're made up of. As individuals and members, or even as
outsiders looking in, we build the sign-relations, we come up with the
meaning of what is and is not furry, each to our own. It is where those
interpretations meet and generate a coherent idea of furry within more
than just the individual's point of view that we wind up with the furry
fandom itself.

\secdivider

\section{Tying it all together}

At some point, the furry fandom started to coalesce. Some would put it
in the 1980s --- a reader and friend posits that the fandom really got
started September 1st, 1980 at Noreascon with Steve Gallacci[5] --- some
would put it much, much earlier, and some perhaps later, into the '90s
when the Internet became truly accessible. For the sake of this article
and much of this site in general, we'd probably go with some time in the
mid to late '80s for the source of the fandom. This was the time when
the umwelten, the spheres of meaning for individuals, began to collide
in enough numbers to form that critical mass that led to the formation
of a subculture rather than a collection of enthusiasts. Furries
doubtless existed before, as is certainly evident even within our own
readership, but the furry fandom as a culture phenomenon, the basis of
study for much of this site (rather than individual furries themselves),
relied upon this interest being actively shared among ur-members.

It was a sort of participatory semiosis that helps to define the
exploratory beginnings of any new social group. It wasn't so much that
individuals hadn't come up with the idea of fox-people before, as that
now they were in the process of finding meaning in the fact that there
was a cultural identity to be had, and assigning it to the signs of
``funny animal'' and furry, to foxes and cats leading extraordinary or
banal lives, to the very feeling of membership. In her book
\textit{Straight}, Hanne Blank makes a similar argument that the growth
of heterosexuality (and its complement, homosexuality) was due in part
to the process of self identificiation, the semiosis among individuals
that reached a critical mass after a few influential authors such as
Freud became widely read.

In short, I tend to focus on what I'm calling the ``contiguous fandom''.
That is, a fandom made of of members which share the borders of their
umwelten, the meanings attached to the sign that is 'furry', in order to
create a coherent whole of a fandom. This is the importance of
membership; it is the act of being actors in a community that helps to
define the community as an entity.

Another way to think of it is that this is our participation mystique.
By basing part of one's identity on one's membership to an idea or
community, one helps to define both oneself and the thing of which one
is a member. To put it in the terms of linguistics above, we readily
adopt our sociolect. Remember here that we're taking into account all of
the signs available to us. Not only are we taking in this social
interaction using words in a furry context, but we're always taking in
the visual aspect of furry art and the participatory aspect of
conventions, fursuiting, and so on.

Beyond just adopting the sociolect, however, we're continuously adding
to it. We aren't just passive observers, but we are actively
participating in the creation of new texts, whether it's voicing our
appreciation of art, taking part in role-playing, or even running a
silly meta-furry blog where one talks about the semiotics of the furry
subculture.

Given the contiguous fandom, I can't continue without providing some
thoughts on what's ``outside'' that mostly coherent group of individuals
that make up furry. There is also importance in not being a member, in
not having that participation mystique. When it comes to signs in
semiotics, there is a loose division into dyadic and triadic signs. With
dyadic signs, you simply have one entity assigning the meaning of what a
tree is to the sign ``tree'', but in triadic signs, one has the additional
context of just who it is that is doing the assigning alongside what is
is that is being assigned. This is the interpretant sign the one to whom
``I'' and ``you'' hold meaning as opposed to one and the other, and,
although it's abstract, it becomes very important when it comes to
membership.

When someone says ``I am a furry'', they are using a dyadic sign to
signify that a portion of themselves is defined as a member of the furry
community. However, when someone says ``that person is a furry'', then the
sign shifts to being triadic: the interpretant is taking an active role
in specifying that a sign (``furry'') signifies an object (``that person'').
Someone can always construct their own sign relations at any time, but
when it involves a third party, it has the tendency of muddying the
waters of the semiotic niche (after all, if it were straight-forward,
there wouldn't be much discussion to have).

What this means is that someone can certainly contribute to the
sociolect without necessarily becoming a member of the society which
owns it. There are more than enough examples of this to go around:
\textit{Watership Down} and ``Robin Hood'', or perhaps Coyote or Raven or
Jackal. The creators of these signs and contexts did not necessarily
take up membership in the furry social group, but they certainly did add
to the niche of language and meaning that has been carved out over the
last thirty years or so. This is complicated even further by the fact
that the niche is made up of a community of actors rather than just one:
something like Coyote as trickster may seem plenty furry to one member
of the community, but only tangentially so, if at all, to another.

There are a few problems surrounding this concept of furry as a semiotic
niche, and they have to do with the depth at which one analyzes the
fandom, or the distance from it one stands. If, for example, one were to
step back from furry a little ways, one can look at it a different way
and see it in the context of a related field: genre theory.

Furry as a genre is, on the surface, not a surprising concept. One can
think of furry literature just as easily as one considers fantasy
literature, or perhaps historical fiction. There is an underlying topic
that lays beneath the corpi of all three genres. However, as Chandler
puts it, ``The classification and hierarchical taxonomy of genres is not
a neutral and `objective' procedure.''[6] The important point here is
that the difference between objective and subjective interpretation is,
in the terms of semiotics, the act of subjective interpretation is a
sign in and of itself. That so many furries today would consider
Disney's ``Robin Hood'' to be a furry movie holds meaning both in regards
to the object of the film and the fuzzy interpretants themselves. It is
difficult even for me to interpret the movie outside of a furry context
--- I saw it first in Elementary school, and even then spent time drawing
foxes afterwards. Needless to say, genre's a difficult thing to
determine from within.

This leads us to the second issue of determining a definition from
within or without. If we bring back the concept of Moderate Whorfianism,
this becomes more evident. In that context, language influences
thinking, but if the thinking is the process of defining either one's
membership within the community, or, more dangerously, defining the
community as a whole as we are here, then a feedback loop is started. If
our contributions to the sociolect modify the sociolect that we're in
the process of studying, even individually, then it becomes even more
difficult to pin down. This is quite the problem when studying the
fandom from within.

Studying the fandom from outside introduces other related risks,
however. It's difficult to study something like this from the outside,
as well, without having some concept of the use of the texts involved
within their context. That is, it seems like studying a participatory
corpus such as that of the output of our subculture without
participating as well has the risk of coming up with an incomplete
mental map of what all is going on. A good example of this (and I do
mean good - the studies are well worth reading) would be the work of
Kathleen Gerbasi, such as her study Furries A to Z (Anthropomoprhism to
Zoomorphism)[7]. While the study is well conducted and provides a good,
in-depth look at the fandom, entries to her livejournal page indicate an
involvement with the fandom not quite at the level of membership, but
perhaps above simple scientific observation.

There is, it seems, a bit of indeterminacy when it comes to studying
something such as a social phenomenon. By investigating or defining, we
change, or at least risk changing that which is investigated or defined.
It's part of the aforementioned feedback loop, as certainly the goal of
the investigator is to be changed in some way by the thing being
investigated. That's what gaining knowledge is all about.

Finally, the furry corpus in particular is extremely difficult to
analyze. This is mostly due to the proliferation of texts, media, and
modalities. We produce \textit{a lot}. It is to the point where it's
even difficult to break the corpus down beyond lines other than simply
different media. Even those lines are blurred by the profuse
cross-sharing of information across media, such as the reposting on
twitter of FA journals that link to one or several images, potentially
hosted on other sites.

There is, of course, plenty of writing to go by within the fandom. It's
not simply writing for the sake of adding to the furry genre, such as it
is, though, but writing in the form of image descriptions, journals, and
rants on twitter. The idea is carried further to social interaction with
written language, through twitter conversations, comments on images,
role-playing, and instant messaging. Beyond the word, however, there is
our focus on visual art; whether or not visual art is the primary draw
to the fandom is certainly up for debate, but there is a reason that one
of the primary social hubs online is an art website and one of the big
draws at conventions is the art-show and dealers den.

There are more complex forms of communication than static text and
images, though, and here is where things become quite difficult to
analyze in any meaningful way. Fursuits, for instance, provide
communication in a visual medium similar to that as art --- they are
pleasing to look at and express the meaning of the character they are
intended to embody --- but they are also an interactive medium. A medium
that can move and talk, can hug and bounce and stalk and take on a life
of its own.

And beyond even the concept of extending one's character into a costume
one can don, there is our social interaction that happens on a more
mundane basis, yet still within the boundaries of ``furry interaction''.
There is an acceptable behavior, however ill-defined, that goes along
with being a furry. It's difficult to speak of beyond tendencies and
social cues, as many such social customs that come with membership in a
subculture or fandom. It has been noted before, though, that one can
tell the furries at a furry convention and a furmeet apart from the
non-furs. There's a way that we act, which likely has much more to do
with the idea of shared membership and social status than an interest in
animals. JM, for instance, writes about the prevalence of geekiness and
the behavioral norms that go along with it as they pertain to our
fandom[8].

There are subtle cues and portions of our sociolect all over the place,
though, and it doesn't always have to do with direct communication
between actors in the community. The subtler things such as structures
in websites (Flickr and DeviantArt, for instance, don't have a category
option specifically for species) and conventions (the previously
mentioned focus on dissemination of texts through the artshow and
dealers areas), or even in media already geared toward social
interaction such as MUCKs (again with a species flag) and SecondLife
(where one can purchase a skin not only of the species of one's
character, but of the exact color required).

Furry is a heady mix of a full slice of human society that somehow seems
to remain topical. We have the glue of our mutual interest in
anthropomorphics, but beyond that, we have spread our corpus across
several different texts in our own personal ways of generating meaning
within the context of our subculture. By the interaction of our own
spheres of meaning we have generated our own semiotic niche, however
fuzzy around the edges, and come up with this idea of ``furry''. There's
no real easy way to pull it apart, even given as broad a topic as
semiotics, but by investigating and participating, we always seem to
expand it all the further.

\secdivider

\section{Conclusion}

This thing we call ``furry'' is clearly more difficult to pin down than
one simple article or even a whole website will cover. It's something
that I'd tried before in a few different ways. In fact, it seems to be
something that everyone tries as part of their membership dues. Every
now and then, once a month or so, I'll come across a journal post of
someone else's take on the whole fandom, and the beautiful (and yes, a
little frustrating) part of it is that they're all totally different.

We can make at least one statement, having taken all of this into
account, though. Furry is a complex interaction of actors within a
social community surrounding an already complex sign-meaning
relationship. Beyond that, though, the issue grows complex by our
reliance on two main modalities: natural language, which is always prone
to misinterpretation; and visual art, which is only barely analyzable,
and limited further, anyhow, by the medium of primarily hand-drawn
images. Both of these are inherently ambiguous, and often based on
aesthetics and identification on a per-member basis. That is, what is
furry to one is not necessarily furry to another, or even the creator.
The final level of obfuscation comes through the means with which so
many interact with the fandom, via a willfully constructed avatar,
something which does not match the individual themselves out of
necessity.

This article and any like it will have it's necessary downsides. We
didn't really get anywhere, all told --- we defined some terms in order to
help us understand the ways in which we interact with our subculture,
both through the linguistic concept of a sociolect, a language used
among our co-fans, and the semiotic concept of a niche, a set of
meanings and sign relations shared by the members of the niche. It's
hard to get anywhere with either, though, especially in such a
loose-weaved community. Semiotics and linguistics are all about
statements of subtle facts made out in the open. There are concrete
tests and analyses to be done (if one could port the commutation test to
our visual art in order to find the ``graphemes'' of muzzles and tails,
that could lead to interesting results), but they're difficult to really
do well, and even if they were, it's not guaranteed that they would lead
to any results, nor if any of the results would even be welcome.

There are positives to be had as well, though. I hope that the article
has provided more insight into the linguistics and semiotics of the
fandom. The ideas of sociolects and genres are a good way to think about
this broad base of which we are a part, because they provide a
foundation of words on which we can base our own explanations of what it
means to be a furry. And, beyond the definitions, it's nice to maintain
a certain sort of disputability. It allows for a greater membership
through greater self identification --- more people can become furry
because the definition of what furry is can accommodate them. And hey,
that sense of mystery about the fandom is always nice, as well. It's a
hook for bringing in new members, and for keeping the old ones 
interested, too.

I know this has been a little out of the norm, but I wanted to actually
take my time to research an article and provide a more coherent look at
the reasons for studying the fandom, and for this site in general. These
things \textit{are} important to us, too. The meanings we create
determine our interactions within the fandom and how they take place.
Beyond that, though, by participating in our community as members, we
contribute to it. This is how we grow, explore, and find meaning,

Where to go from here? Well, I hope that the cognizance of the signs
around us is helpful in a way. Every word, every piece of art, and every
interaction between members is a sign from which we can glean a message
and to which we can attach our own individual meanings, however mundane.
The meanings inherent in these relations surround us and help define our
membership, and we're certainly always creating more. If nothing else,
there's always more work to go when it comes to exploring the furry
subculture.
\begin{comment}
<h2>Citations</h2>
[1] Chandler, Daniel. "The Act of Writing". <a
href="http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/act/act.html"
target="_blank">http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/act/act.html</a>
accessed April 3, 2012.

[2] Zik. "furry lexicon". <a
href="http://pastebin.com/GR7MqsnJ">http://pastebin.com/GR7MqsnJ</a>
accessed, April 2, 2012.

[3] Munroe, Randall. "Umwelt". <a href="http://xkcd.com/1037/"
target="_blank">http://xkcd.com/1037/</a> accessed April 1, 2012.

[4] Lotman, Yuri M. On the semiosphere. (Translated by Wilma Clark) Sign
Systems Studies, 33.1 (2005). <a
href="http://www.ut.ee/SOSE/sss/Lotman331.pdf"
target="_blank">http://www.ut.ee/SOSE/sss/Lotman331.pdf</a> accessed
April 5, 2012.

[5] Geddes, M." The History of the Furry Fandom, Pt 1" (2012).

[6] Chandler, Daniel. "An Introduction to Genre Theory". <a
href="http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/intgenre/intgenre1.html"
target="_blank">http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/intgenre/intgenre1.html</a>
accessed April 7, 2012.

[7] Gerbasi, Kathleen. "Furries A to Z (Anthropomorphism to Zoomorphism)
in "Society and Animals", 16, 197-222. <a
href="http://www2.asanet.org/sectionanimals/articles/GerbasilFurries.pdf"
target="_blank">http://www2.asanet.org/sectionanimals/articles/GerbasilFurries.pdf</a>
accessed March 15, 2012.

[8] JM. "Geeks". <a href="http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/09/geeks/"
target="_blank">http://adjectivespecies.com/2012/04/09/geeks/</a>
accessed April 9, 2012.
\end{comment}
